# Module 8: Administering and troubleshooting Office 365 compliance and security
## Lab Answer Key: Configuring and troubleshooting compliance and security



# Exercise 1: Configuring and verifying Azure Information Protection in Office 365 

## Task 1: Activate Azure Information Protection in Office 365

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open  **Microsoft Edge**, and then connect to  +++https://portal.office.com+++.

2. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center as +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++.

3. In the app launcher, select the  **Admin** icon.

4. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select **Show all**, expand  **Settings**, select **Org settings** and then select  **Services** tab.

5. Select  **Microsoft Azure Information Protection**.

6. On the  **Microsoft Azure Information Protection** page, select **Manage Microsoft Azure Information Protection settings**.

7. On the  **rights management** page, verify that rights management is activated. You should find the message **Rights management is activated**.

    > **NOTE:** If it is not:  
    > 1. Select **activate**.  
    > 2. When prompted with  **Do you want to activate Rights Management?**, select  **activate.**


## Task 2: Configure and verify Azure Information Protection for Exchange Online

1. Open the  **Windows PowerShell** on the **LON-CL1**. Use **Run as administrator** option.

2. Enter the following commands, and then select Enter after each command to connect to Exchange Online with remote Windows PowerShell. Use Holly's credentials, when prompted, to connect **(*Note*: it is expected to receive a warning about URL redirection, when executing these commands)** :

    ```powershell
    $Cred = Get-Credential
    ```
    ```
    $Session = New-PSSession -ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri https://ps.outlook.com/powershell/ -Credential $Cred -Authentication Basic -AllowRedirection 
    ```
    ```
    Import-PSSession $Session -DisableNameChecking
    ```

3. Enter the following command, and then select Enter to review the IRM configuration.

    ```powershell
    Get-IRMConfiguration
    ```

4. In the result, verify that values for the first nine variables are set to **True** or **Optional**.

5. Enter the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, and then select Enter to test the configuration:

    ```powershell
    Test-IRMConfiguration -Sender Holly@Adatum@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com
    ```

6. Verify that you receive  **OVERALL RESULT: PASS** message at the end of the test results.

7. Enter the following command, select Enter, and then close Windows PowerShell:

    ```powershell
    Remove-PSSession $Session
    ```

## Task 3: Configure Azure Information Protection for SharePoint Online

1. In Microsoft Edge, access the Microsoft 365 admin center.

2. On the navigation pane, within  **Admin centers**, select  **SharePoint**. 

3. In the SharePoint admin center, in the navigation pane, select **Settings**. On the Settings page, select **classic settings page** link in the details pane.

4. On the  **Settings** page, in the Information Rights Management (IRM)  section, select **Use the IRM service specified in your configuration**, and then select  **Refresh IRM Settings**.

5. Select **OK**.


## Task 4: Validate Azure Information Protection functionality

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Word. If **Activation Wizard** appears, close it.

2. In the  **Word** window,  click on **Holly Spencer** account icon, select **Switch account** or **Sign in**.

3. In the  **Accounts** dialog box, select **Add Account**.

4. In the  **Sign in** dialog box, enter +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, and then select  **Next**.

5. Enter Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++, and then select  **Sign in**. In the **Stay signed in to all your apps** window, select **OK** and then select **Done**.

6. Close Word.

7. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Outlook. If the Welcome to Outlook window appears, ensure that **Holly's email address** is filled and select **Connect** and then select **OK** with clearing the option to configure Outlook on mobile phone.

8. In the **Outlook** window, create a new email with  **Beth Burke** as the recipient.

9. Enter a subject, and then enter some text in the message body.

10. On the  **Options** tab, select **Permission** (on some Office builds, this option is called Encrypt), and then select  **Connect to the Rights Management Server and get templates**. If the  **Windows Security** window appears, select **OK**, and then sign in with Holly's credentials.

11. Select  **Permission** again, and then select **Do Not Forward**.

12. Send the message. 

13. In Microsoft Edge, connect to +++https://adatum*@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.sharepoint.com/sites/marketingteam+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

14. Select  **Documents**, select the  **settings** icon, and then select **Library settings**.

15. On the  **Settings** page, under **Permissions and Management**, select  **Information Rights Management**.

    >[!Note]If you don't find the **Information Rights Management** option available, **wait 5-6 minutes, and then repeat steps 13-15**.

16. On the  **Information Rights Management Settings** page, select the **Restrict permissions on this library on download** check box.

17. In the  **Create a permission policy title** text box, enter **Marketing Policy**.

18. In the  **Add a permission policy description** text box, enter **Marketing policy for downloads.**

19. Select  **SHOW OPTIONS**.

20. Under  **Configure document access rights**, select the  **Allow viewers to write on a copy of the downloaded document** check box. 

21. Note the other options available, and then select  **OK**.

22. Close **Microsoft Edge**.

23. Open **Microsoft Edge**, and then connect to  +++https://portal.office.com+++. Sign in as +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++ with Beth's password, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name.

24. In the **Office 365 portal**, in the app launcher, select  **Outlook**.

25. On the **Outlook** page, select your time zone if prompted, and then select **Save**.

26. Verify that you received an email from Holly that is IRM protected. Select the message.

27. Verify that you don't have the option to forward or print the message. 

28. In **Microsoft Edge**, connect to +++https://adatum*@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.sharepoint.com/sites/marketingteam+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

29. Select  **Documents**, and then select  **Document**. Note: You should have a document created in this site, in Module 6.

30. After the document opens, try to edit it in Word Online. The option to edit in Word Online will not be available, and you'll find **Marketing policy for downloads** in the message bar. 

31. Close **Microsoft Edge**.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured rights management for **Exchange Online** and **SharePoint Online**.

# Exercise 2: Configuring compliance features

## Task 1: Configure the Office 365 Security &amp; Compliance Center permissions and audit logging

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open **Microsoft Edge**, and then connect to  +++https://portal.office.com+++.

2. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++.

3. In the app launcher, select the  **Admin** icon.

4. Open the new tab in the Microsoft Edge and navigate to +++https://protection.office.com+++. Authenticate as Holly, if needed.

5. In the **Office 365 Security & Compliance center**, select  **Permissions**.

6. Select  **Compliance Administrator**, and then select  **Edit** in the **Members** section.

7. On the  **Editing Choose members** page, select **Choose members**.

8. In the  **Choose Members** window, select **Add** select **Beth Burke**, select  **Add**, and then select  **Done**. If Beth Burke isn't visible in the list, enter her name in the search box.

9. Select  **Save** and then close **Compliance Administrator** pane.

10. Select  **To assign permissions for archiving, auditing and retention policies, go to the Exchange admin center**.

11. Select  **Compliance Management**, and then select  **Edit**.

12. On the  **Compliance Management** page, under **Members**, select  **Add**.

13. In the  **Select Members** window, select **Beth Burke**, select  **add**->, and then select  **OK**. 

14. Select  **Save**.

15. Select  **Recipient Management**, and then select  **Edit**.

16. On the  **Recipient Management** page, under **Members**, select  **Add**.

17. In the  **Select Members** select **Beth Burke**, select  **add**->, and then select **OK**.

18. Select  **Save**.

19. Close the **Role Groups** tab.

20. Select  **eDiscovery Manager**.

21. On the  **eDiscovery Manager** page, under **eDiscovery Manager**, select  **Edit**.

22. In the  **Editing Choose eDiscovery Manager** window, select **Choose eDiscovery Manager**, select **Add**, select **Christie Thomas** select  **Add**, and then select  **Done**.

23. Select  **Save** and then close **eDiscovery Manager** pane.

24. Expand  **Search** in navigation pane.

25. Select  **Audit log search**.

26. On the  **Audit log search** page, select **Turn on auditing** and then select **Yes**. Note that it can take a some time before this option is enabled.

27. Leave **Microsoft Edge** window with **Office 365 Security & Compliance center** opened.



## Task 2: Configure archive mailboxes

1. In the navigation pane of **Office 365 Security & Compliance center**, expand  **Information governance**, and then select  **Archive**.

2. In the  **Archive** window, select **Christie Thomas**, and then Ctrl + select  **Catherine Richard**.

3. Under  **Bulk Edit**, select  **Enable**. In the warning message, select  **Yes**, and then select  **Close**.

4. Select  **Refresh**, and then verify that **Christie** and **Catherine** have been enabled for an archive mailbox.

5. Leave the  **Office 365 Security &amp; Compliance center** open.



## Task 3: Configure retention tags and policies

1. Switch to the **Microsoft 365 admin portal** at +++https://portal.office.com+++. If needed, select  **Admin**.

2. In the **Microsoft 365 admin portal**, expand  **Admin centers**, and then select  **Exchange**.

3. In the **Exchange admin center**, select  **compliance management** and then select **retention tags**.

4. On  **the retention tags** page, select the **New tag** button ( **+** ), and then select  **applied automatically to entire mailbox (default)**.

5. Enter  **Research User 1 year move to archive** as the name.

6. Select  **Move to Archive** as the **Retention action**.

7. Enter  **365** in the **When the item reaches the following age (in days)** text box.

8. Select  **Save**.

9. On the toolbar, select the **New tag** button ( **+** ), and then select  **applied automatically to entire mailbox (default)**.

10. Enter  **Default 2 years move to Deleted Items** as the name.

11. Select  **Delete and Allow Recovery** as the **Retention action**.

12. Enter  **730** in the **When the item reaches the following age (in days)** text box.

13. Select  **Save**.

14. On the toolbar, select the **New tag** button ( **+** ), and then select  **applied automatically to a default folder**.

15. Enter  **Purge Deleted Items 30 days** as the name.

16. Under  **Apply this tag to the following default folder**, select  **Deleted Items**.

17. Select  **Permanently Delete** as the **Retention action**.

18. Enter  **30** in the **When the item reaches the following age (in days)** text box.

19. Select **Save**.

20. On the toolbar, select the **New tag** button ( **+** ), and then select  **applied by users to items and folders (personal)**.

21. Enter  **2 Year Delete** as the name.

22. Select  **Delete and Allow Recovery** as the **Retention action**.

23. Enter  **730** in the **When the item reaches the following age (in days)** text box.

24. Select  **Save**.

25. On the toolbar, select the **New tag** button ( **+** ), which is the plus sign ( **+** ), and then select  **applied by users to items and folders (personal)**.

26. Enter  **Never archive** as the name.

27. Select  **Move to Archive** as the **Retention action**.

28. Select  **Never** as the **Retention period**.

29. Select  **Save**.

30. Select  **retention policies** on the toolbar.

31. On the toolbar, select  **New** ( **+** ).

32. On the  **new retention policy** page, enter **Research MRM Policy** as the name.

33. Select  **Add** in **Retention tags**.

34. In the  **select retention tags** window, Ctrl+select the following retention tags:

    -  **Research user 1 year move to archive**
  
    -  **Never delete**
  
    -  **2 year delete**


35. Select  **add**, and then select  **ok**. Select  **Save**.

36. In the **Exchange admin center**, select  **recipients**.

37. Double-select  **Christie Thomas** ,or select it and then select Enter.

38. In the **Christie Thomas** window, select  **mailbox features**.

39. In the **Retention policy** drop down box select  **Research MRM Policy**.

40. Select  **Save**.

41. Close the  **Exchange admin center** window.


## Task 4: Configure content deletion and preservation policies

1. Return to the **Office 365 Security & Compliance Center**.

2. Select to expand  **Information governance**, and then select  **Retention**.

3. On the  **Retention** page, select **+Create**.

4. On the  **Name your policy** page, change the policy name to **Marketing Document Policy**, and then select  **Next**.

5. On the  **Settings** page, select **No, just delete content that's older than**, and then enter  **7** in the text box and select **years** (if needed). Use **Delete the content based on when it was created** condition. Select **Next**.

6. On the  **Choose locations** page, enable only **SharePoint sites**. Disable all other locations.

7. Select  **Choose sites**.

8. On the  **Edit locations** page, select **Choose sites**.

9. On the  **SharePoint sites** page, type +++https://adatumyyxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/MarketingTeam+++ in the text box and click Add button.

10. Select  the site you just added, and then select  **Choose**. select  **Done**.

11. Select  **Next**.

12. Select  **Create this policy**. After the policy is created, select  **Close**.

13. On the  **Retention** page, select **+Create**.

14. On the  **Name your policy** page, enter **Retain contract details** as the policy name, and then select **Next**.

15. On the  **Settings** page, select **Use advanced retention settings**, and then select  **Detect content that contains specific words or phrases**. Select  **Next**.

16. On the  **Advanced retention** page, enter **Contracts** in the **Keyword query editor**, select **Retain the content For this long... 7 years**, and then select  **Next**.

17. On the  **Choose locations** page, select **Let me choose specific locations**, and then select only  **Exchange email**. 

18. Select  **Choose recipients**, and then again select  **Choose recipients** on the **Edit locations** page.

19. Select  **Francisco Chavez**, select  **Choose**, and then select  **Done**. Select  **Next**.

20. On the  **Review your settings** page, select **Create this policy**. Select **Close**.

21. Leave **Microsoft Edge** window open.



## Task 5: Configure data loss prevention policy

1. In the navigation pane of **Office 365Security &amp; Compliance center**, select  **Data loss prevention**. Select  **Policy**.

2. Select  **+Create a policy**.

3. On the  **Start with a template or create a custom policy** page, verify that  **Custom Policy** is selected, and then select  **Next**.

4. On the  **Name your policy** page, enter **Test DLP Policy**, and then select  **Next**.

5. On the  **Choose locations** page, select **Protect content in Exchange email, Teams chats and channel messages and OneDrive and SharePoint documents.**, and then select  **Next**.

6. On the  **Customize the type of content you want to protect** page, select **Use advanced settings**, and then select  **Next**.

7. On the  **Customize the type of content you want to protect** page, select **+New rule**.

8. On the  **Create a new rule** page, in the **Name** text box, type **Scan for IP address**.

9. Under **Conditions**, select the **+ Add a condition** drop-down list, and then select  **Content contains**.

10. Under **Content contains**, select the **Add** drop-down list and then select **Sensitive info types**.

11. In the  **Sensitive info types** window,  select **+ Add**, scroll down and select  **IP Address** from the list, and then select **Add**. Select  **Done**.

12. In the **Content contains** section, select  **+ Add a condition**, select  **Content is shared**, and then select  **with people outside my organization**.

13. Scroll down to **Actions** section, select  **+ Add an action**, and then select  **Restrict access or encrypt the content**, and verify that options **Block people from sharing and restrict access to shared content** and **Only for people outside your organization** are selected.

14. Under  **User notifications**, enable notifications.

15. Under **User overrides**, enable this option and select **Require a business justification to override**.

16. Under  **Incident reports**, enable the option to  **Use email incident reports to notify you when a policy match occurs** and scroll down to review the rest of the settings.

17. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Next**.

18. On the  **Do you want to turn on the policy or test things out first?** page, select **Yes, turn it on right away**, select  **Next**, and then select  **Create**.

19. Select  **Close**.



## Task 6: Create compliance check content

1. Open new in-Private **Microsoft Edge** window (not tab), and then connect to  +++https://portal.office.com+++.

2. Sign in to the **Office 365 portal** as +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++ , where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, by using Beth's password.

3. On the  **Office 365** home page, select **Outlook**. 

4. Select  **New message**, enter the new Microsoft account email address that you created for this course or your private email address in the  **To** line, enter +++Server IP address+++ as the **Subject**, enter  +++My IP is 192.168.1.15+++ as the message body, and then select **Send**. 

    >[!Note] If you didn't create Microsoft account for this course, you can also use your private email address for this purpose.

5. Ensure that you received a message from **Microsoft Outlook**, telling you that your email message conflicts with a policy in your organization. 

    >[!Note] You might have to select  **Other** in the pane to find the message. Also, sometimes it takes time for the message to arrive. You can proceed with other tasks.

6. Close **Microsoft Edge**.


## Task 7: Validate the configuration

1. Open **Microsoft Edge** and then connect to  +++https://outlook.office.com+++.

2. Sign in as  +++Christie@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, by using Christie's password. If prompted to stay signed in, select **No**.

3. Select  **Pacific Time (US &amp; Canada)** time zone, and then select **Save**.

4. In the navigation pane of Christie's mailbox, under  **Folders**, select  **More**. 

5. Verify that a folder named  **Archive** has been created.

6. Close **Microsoft Edge**.

7. Open **Microsoft Edge** and then connect to  +++https://outlook.office.com+++.

8. Sign in as  +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++.

9. Verify that you have received notification about the message you tried to send from Beth's account. This message should have  **Rule detected** - **Scan for IP address** in the subject. Note: You might have to select **Other** in the middle pane to find the message, or it may be in the **Junk Email** folder.

10. Leave **Office 365 Security & Compliance center** window or tab open. You can close other browser windows and tabs.


    >  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have implemented the following features in **Office 365**:
    > - Delegate rights in the **Office 365 Security & Compliance Center**.
    > - Enable **archive mailboxes**.
    > - Configure **retention tags** and **policies**.
    > - Configure **content deletion** and **preservation policies**.
    > - Configure **DLP**.


# Exercise 3: Configuring email protection

## Task 1: Configure the anti-malware policy

1. On **LON-CL1**, restore the Microsoft Edge window with **Office 365 Security & Compliance center**.
2. Expand Threat management and select **Policy**.
3. From the right pane, in the **Policies** section, select **Anti-malware**.
4. On the new page, select **Create**.
5. On the Name your policy page, type **Adatum anti-malware** in the Name text box. Select **Next**.
6. On the Malware detection response page, select **Yes and use the default notification text** and select **Next**.
7. On the Common attachment types filter page, select **On** and select **Next**.
8. On the Malware Zero-hour Auto Purge page, select **On** and select **Next**.
9. On the Notifications page, select all options under **Sender notifications** and **Administrator notifications**. Select **Next**. For administrator email address, provide address of Holly.
10. On the Applied to page, open **Add a condition** drop down list. Select **The recipient domain is** option.
11. Select **Choose** link, and then select **Add**. You will see three domain names. Select all, and then select **Add**.
12. Select **Done** and then select **Next**.
13. On the Review your settings page, review the options you have configured and select **Create this policy**.


## Task 2: Configure the Anti-spam policy

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the **Office 365 Security & Compliance center**, expand **Threat management** and select **Policy**.
2. From the right pane, in the **Policies** section, select **Anti-spam**.
3. Select **Create a policy**.
4. In the New spam filter policy window, type **Adatum anti-spam policy** in the Name text box.
5. From the available options, expand **Spam and bulk actions**. Review available settings. In the **Quarantine** text box, type **15**.
6. Expand **Spam Properties** and then expand **Mark as spam**. Select **On**.
7. Expand **Applied to**. Select **Add a condition**, select **Recipient domain is** and then in the Add a tag box, select your custom domain.
8. Scroll down and select **Save**.


## Task 3: Enable Advanced Threat Protection

1. Expand **Threat management**, and then select **Policy**. In the details pane, select **ATP safe attachments**.
3. In the toolbar, select **Create**.
4. In the **New Safe Attachment Policy** window, on the Name your policy page, enter **Projects policy** in the **Name** text box, and then select **Next**.
5. On the Settings page, select  **Replace - Block the attachments with detected malware, continue to deliver the message**.
6. In the Redirect attachment on detection section, select **Enable redirect**. In the Send the attachment to the following email address textbox, enter +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++. Select **Next**.
7. On the Applied to page, select **Add a condition** and from the dropdown box select **The recipient is a member of**.
8. In the  **Any of these** textbox, enter +++DLGroup1+++    , and then select  **Next**.
9. On the Review your settings page, select **Finish**.
10. In the  **Warning** window, select **Yes**.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have explored the anti-spam and anti-virus settings that are available in Exchange Online.


# Exercise 4: Troubleshooting security and compliance

## Task 1: Configure the super user feature for Azure Information Protection

1. Ensure that you are signed in as **Holly** on  **LON-CL1**.

2. Open **Windows PowerShell** on **LON-CL1**. Use **Run as administrator** option.

3. In the command prompt window, enter the following commands, and then select Enter after each command.

    ```powershell
    Set-PSRepository -Name PSGallery -InstallationPolicy Trusted
    Install-Module -Name AADRM
    Connect-MsolService
    ```

4. Sign in with Holly's credentials.

5. In the command prompt window, enter the following command, and then select Enter.

    ```powershell
    Connect-AadrmService
    ```

6. If needed, sign in again with Holly's credentials.

7. In the command prompt window, enter the following command, and then select Enter.

    ```powershell
    Enable-AadrmSuperUserFeature
    ```

8. Confirm that you receive the message and that the super user feature is enabled.

9. In the command prompt window, enter the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, and then select Enter.

    ```powershell
    Add-AadrmSuperUser -emailAddress Holly@Adatum@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com
    ```

10. Ensure that you get the message that Holly was added to super users.

11. In the command prompt window, enter the following command, and then select Enter.

    ```powershell
    Get-AadrmSuperUser
    ```

12. Verify that only Holly is listed.

13. Close Windows PowerShell window.

14. Sign out from  **LON-CL1**.



## Task 2: Verifying access to protected document

1. Sign in to  **LON-CL3** as +++Adatum\\Beth+++ by using +++Pa55w.rd+++ as the password.

2. Select  **Start**, and then open **Word**.

3. In the  **Word** window, click on account icon and verify that you are signed in as +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++. If not, select to sign in as different account and then in the  **Sign in** dialog box, enter +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, and then select  **Next**. Enter Beth's password, and then select  **Sign in**.

6. Select **Blank document** and then in the  Word document window, enter the text of your choice.

7. Select  **File**, select  **Info**, and then select  **Protect Document**. Navigate to  **Restrict Access**, and then select  **Restricted Access**. 

    > [!Note] In some cases, you'll first have to choose to **Connect to Rights Management servers to get templates**.


8. In the  **Permissions** window, select **Restrict permission to this document**.

9. In the  **Read** text box, enter +++Christie@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, and then select  **OK**.

10. Save the protected document in the  **C:\\Labfiles** folder (create folder before saving) on **LON-CL3**. Name the document +++test.docx+++.

11. Close Word and then sign out from  **LON-CL3**.


## Task 3: Validating the super user feature

1. Sign in to  **LON-CL3** as +++Adatum\\Holly+++ by using +++Pa55w.rd+++ as the password.

2. Select  **Start**, and then open **Word**. Select **Accept and start Word** if prompted.

3. In the  **Word** window, click on account icon and verify that you are signed in as +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++. If not, select to sign in as different account and then in the  **Sign in** dialog box, enter +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, and then select  **Next**. Enter Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++, and then select  **Sign in**.

7. Select  **Open**, and then select  **Browse**.

8. Navigate to  +++C:\\LabFiles+++, select  **test.docx**, and then select  **Open**.

9. Verify that you can open the document, although you aren't listed on the document access list in the previous tasks. This is because Holly is configured as a super user.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured the super user feature on your Office 365 tenant and assigned Holly as a super user.



©2020 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
