Module 6: Administering and troubleshooting SharePoint Online
=============================================================

Lab: Configuring and administering SharePoint Online
====================================================

### Scenario

Now that Adatum Corporation users are using Microsoft Exchange Online and Microsoft Teams, the next step is to start using Microsoft SharePoint Online. You must configure SharePoint Online by configuring the service settings, creating and configuring site collections, and configuring external user sharing.

### Objectives

After completing this lab, you'll be able to:

 -     Configure SharePoint Online settings.

 -     Create and configure SharePoint Online site collections.

 -     Configure and verify external user sharing.

 -     Configure OneDrive for Business.

 -     Troubleshoot SharePoint Online.

### Lab setup

Estimated time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines: **LON-DC1**, **LON-DS1**, **LON-CL1**, and **LON-CL2**

User names: **Adatum\administrator** for **LON-DC1** and **LON-DS1** and **Adatum\Holly** and **Adatum\Beth** for **LON-CL1** and **LON-CL2** 

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, if necessary, you must complete the following steps:

1. On LON-DC1, sign in by using the following credentials:

    - User name: **Administrator** 
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
    - Domain: **Adatum**

2. Do not sign in to **LON-DS1**.
   
3. On **LON-CL1**, sign in by using the following credentials:

    - User name: **Holly**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
    - Domain: **Adatum**

4. On **LON-CL2**, sign in by using the following credentials:

    - User name: **Beth**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
    - Domain: **Adatum**

In all tasks:

 -   Where you observe references to **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, replace ***yyxxxxx*** with your unique Adatum number that you choose in Lab 1  -   Exercise 1, Task 1. In all tasks, where you observe references to ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** replace this string with your custom domain name provided by your lab hosting provider.



**Note**: When asked to sign in during this lab, if you are prompted by the **Help us protect your account** dialog box, select **Skip for now (14 days until this is required)**. 

Exercise 1: Configuring SharePoint Online settings
--------------------------------------------------

### Scenario

As a first step in the SharePoint Online deployment, you'll configure the SharePoint Online service settings.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure settings.

2. Configure user profiles.

3. Configure apps.

#### Task 1: Configure settings

1. On **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, connect to [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com), and then  sign in as  **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** (where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum.com number) with Holly's password.
   
2. Access the SharePoint admin center.

3. Select the **classic settings page**. 

4. In **settings**, configure the following options:

    - Site Collection Storage Management: Manual.

    - Select the new sync client for SharePoint.

5. Switch to the SharePoint admin center and in **Policies**, select **Sharing**.

    - In File and folder links, if necessary, select **Anyone with the link** and then select **Save**.

    

#### Task 2: Configure user profiles

1. In More features, select **Open** in User profiles. 
   
2. Select **Manage User Profiles**, and then find and select the user profile of **Ada**. Add **Holly** as her manager.

3. In SharePoint admin center, select **Open** in User profiles.

4. Under **My Site Settings**, configure **Holly** as the secondary site owner.

    

#### Task 3: Configure apps

1. In More features, select **Open** in Apps.
2. Select **Configure Store settings** in the **Apps** section.
3. Disable apps from starting when documents are opened in the browser.

**Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured the SharePoint Online service settings.

Exercise 2: Creating and configuring a SharePoint site collection
-----------------------------------------------------------------

### Scenario

As a first step in the SharePoint Online deployment, you'll create two site collections: one for the Marketing group and one for the Research group.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a site collection by using the SharePoint admin center.

2. Create a site collection by using Windows PowerShell.

3. Configure permissions on the site collections.

4. Verify access to the site collections.

#### Task 1: Create a site collection by using the SharePoint admin center

1. In Microsoft Edge, in **Sites**, select **Active sites**, and then create a new site named **MarketingTeam**. Use the **https://Adatum*yyxxxxx*.sharepoint.com/sites/marketingteam** URL, and then add **Holly** as the site owner.

2. Wait for the site collection to be created.

**Note:** It can take a few minutes until the **Sharing** menu on the ribbon is active. You can speed this up by selecting F5 to refresh the page.

3. On the Active sites page, for the MarketingTeam site, change the **External sharing** setting in **Policies** to **Anyone**.
   

#### Task 2: Create a site collection by using Windows PowerShell

1. Download the SharePoint Online Management Shell tool from https://aka.ms/f04q5o, and then install it.
   
2. Open the SharePoint Online Management Shell as an administrator.

3. Connect to the SharePoint admin center by running the following command:

    `Connect-SPOService -Url https://Adatumyyxxxxx-admin.sharepoint.com` 

4. When prompted, sign in as **Holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**.

5. Create a new SharePoint Online site by running the following command:

    `New-SPOSite -Url https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/Research -Owner Holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com -StorageQuota 500 -NoWait -Title "Research Project"`

6. Close the **Windows PowerShell** window.

#### Task 3: Configure permissions on the site collections

1. In Microsoft Edge, in **Active sites**, select the **MarketingTeam** site.
   
2. Edit the properties of the site, and then add **Ada Russell** as an additional site collection administrator.

3. Use a InPrivate browser window to navigate to **https://adatum*yyxxxxx*.sharepoint.com/sites/marketingteam**. Sign in as **Ada@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**. From Advanced permissions settings, verify that you are a site collection administrator of the site. 


#### Task 4: Verify access to the site collections

1. On **LON-CL1**, use a InPrivate browser window to navigate to **https://Adatum*yyxxxxx*.sharepoint.com/sites/marketingteam**.
   
2. Sign in as **Beth@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** with Beth's password.

3. Verify that you cannot access the site, and then request access.

4. Connect to **https://Adatum*yyxxxxx*.sharepoint.com/sites/marketingteam**.

5. Sign in as **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** with Holly's password.

6. On the **Advanced site Permissions** page, approve Beth Burke's access request, and then add Ella Perry to the site members group.

7. Access the site again as Beth, and then verify that you have access.

8. Access the site as Ella, and then verify that you have access.

**Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created and configured SharePoint Online site collections.

Exercise 3: Configuring and verifying external user sharing
-----------------------------------------------------------

### Scenario

The Marketing group wants to ensure that external users can access some of the materials that they are uploading to the SharePoint site. You need to configure SharePoint Online and the site collection settings to enable this feature.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure global settings for external user sharing.

2. Configure a site collection for external user sharing.

3. Verify external user sharing.

#### Task 1: Configure global settings for external user sharing

1. In Microsoft Edge, access the SharePoint admin center by signing in as Holly.
   
2. Open the **Policies/Sharing** page and configure:

    - Choose the type of link that's selected by default when users share files and folders in SharePoint and OneDrive: **Anyone with the link**.
    
    - These links must expire within this many days: **7**.

#### Task 2: Configure a site collection for external user sharing

1. Select the **MarketingTeam** site, and then configure it for sharing with external users and by using anonymous guest links.

**Note:** In the following steps, you'll give access to the site collection to a Microsoft account of your choice. We recommend that you use a Microsoft account that you already have. If you do not want to use your private Microsoft account, please create a new Microsoft account at <https://outlook.live.com>.

2. Share the MarketingTeam site with the Microsoft account you want to use. Grant the user member permissions.
   
3. On the marketing site, create a new document in the **Documents** folder. Enter e text in the document.

4. Share the document with your Microsoft account. Grant the user the Edit permission.

#### Task 3: Verify external user sharing

1. Sign in to Outlook.com by using your Microsoft account, and then use the link provided in the email to verify that the external user can access the MarketingTeam site.
   
2. Verify that the user can also access and edit the document in the **Documents** document library.

3. Close all browser tabs, and then close the browser.

4. Sign out as **Adatum\Holly**.

**Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured a site collection for external user sharing, and you should have shared a site and a document with external users.

Exercise 4: Configuring OneDrive for Business
---------------------------------------------

### Scenario

Adatum Corporation wants to start using OneDrive for Business as the default storage  location for user documents. You need to ensure connectivity to OneDrive for Business, configure content synchronization, and share content in OneDrive for Business among users.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Enable OneDrive for Business synchronization.

2. Create files to sync with OneDrive for Business.

3. Share files with other users.

#### Task 1: Enable OneDrive for Business synchronization

1. On **LON-CL1**, sign in as **Adatum\Beth**.
   
2. Open Word 2019, and then sign in as **Beth@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** with Beth's password.
   
3. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

4. Sign in as **Beth@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** with Beth's password.

5. In the Office 365 portal, select **OneDrive**.

6. Create a Word document on the OneDrive site.

7. Select the option to sync the OneDrive folder.

8. Open File Explorer, and then browse the OneDrive location where the synced files are stored. Verify that the Word document has been synced to the local computer.

#### Task 2: Create files to sync with OneDrive for Business

1. On **LON-CL1**, in the **OneDrive - Adatum** folder, create two new folders named **Private** and **Project A**.
   
2. In the **Private** folder, create a new Word document named **Holidays**.
   
3. In the **Project A** folder, create a new Word document named **Project targets**.
   
4. Verify that both files are synced to Office 365.

5. To observe the files online, switch to the **Microsoft Edge** window, and then verify that the two folders with the files are displayed in OneDrive for Business.
   
6. In Microsoft Edge, go to the **Private** folder, open the synced **Holidays.docx** document, add some text in Word Online, and then return to the **Files** site in OneDrive for Business.
   
7. Switch back to File Explorer, go to the **Private** folder, and then open **Holidays**. Notice that the changes made in Word Online have been automatically synced.

#### Task 3: Share files with other users

1. In File Explorer, right-click or access the context menu in the folder named **Project A**, and then select the option to open the folder in the browser. 
   
2. Select the option to share the **Project targets.docx** document.

3. Share the document with the Edit permission with Holly Spencer.

4. Open an **InPrivate** Microsoft Edge window, and then connect to Office 365 as Holly. Access Holly's mail in Outlook.
   
5. Verify that you can open and edit the document shared by Beth.

6. In Beth's online **OneDrive for Business** folder, stop sharing the document.
   
7. Close all **Microsoft Edge** windows.

8. Sign out as **Adatum\Beth**. 

**Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured OneDrive for Business for A Datum Corporation and verified user file sharing in OneDrive for Business.

Exercise 5: Troubleshooting SharePoint Online and OneDrive for Business
---------------------------------------------

### Scenario

A user, Beth Burke, reports that she is no longer able to manage the sales site collection. One of her colleagues, Abbi, has no problem managing the site collection. Beth needs to finish sharing some new content with their external business partner. She reports that Abbi is unable to share content with external users. Also, users report that they can no longer sync files from OneDrive for Business.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Produce problems.

2. Detect SharePoint Online access and OneDrive for Business synchronization problems.
   
3. Resolve SharePoint Online access and OneDrive for Business synchronization problems.
   
4. Prepare for the next module

#### Task 1: Produce problems

1. On **LON-CL1**, sign in as **Adatum\Holly** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
   
2. Open the SharePoint Online Management Shell as administrator. 
   
3. Install the Azure Active Directory PowerShell Module by running `install-module -name MSOnline` in an elevated PowerShell window.

4. Run the **C:\Labfiles\Mod06\Mod6\_CreateProblem.ps1** Windows PowerShell script.

5. When prompted, sign in as **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** with Holly's password.

6. Please wait 10 minutes after the script is finished before proceeding with the next lab task.

   

#### Task 2: Detect SharePoint Online access and OneDrive for Business synchronization problems

1. On **LON-CL2**, sign in as **Adatum\Beth** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
   
2. Open Microsoft Edge, and then access **https://Adatum*yyxxxxx*.sharepoint.com/sites/sales**.
   
3. Sign in as **Beth@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** with Beth's password.
   
4. Verify that Beth is not allowed to access the Sales Team site.

5. Close Microsoft Edge.

6. Open Microsoft Edge, and then access **https://Adatum*yyxxxxx*.sharepoint.com/sites/sales**.

7. Sign in as **Abbi@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** with Abbi's password.

8. Verify that Abbi can access the Sales Team site.

9. Share the site with your Microsoft account.

10. Verify that you receive an error message stating that you cannot share the site.

11. In Microsoft Edge, go to Abbi's OneDrive.

12. Sync the **OneDrive** folder with the OneDrive for Business sync client by using Abbi's credentials.

**Note:** If you receive a request to search for an app in the Store, select the link to get the latest version of OneDrive and install the
OneDrive for Business sync client.

13. Verify that you receive an error stating that OneDrive cannot add your folder now. If you do not receive an error at this point, cancel the wizard, and wait for 5 minutes before attempting to sync again.

#### Task 3: Resolve SharePoint Online access and OneDrive for Business synchronization problems

1. Attempt to resolve the problem by using your knowledge of the SharePoint Online and OneDrive for Business configuration settings.
   
2. If you are unable to resolve the problem, escalate it by asking your instructor for additional guidance.

#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module

 -     When you have finished the lab, close all open windows, and keep the virtual machines running for the next module.

**Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have resolved SharePoint Online and OneDrive for Business issues.

## Lab review

- What is the best way to verify access to external sites?

- What is the best way to configure user profile settings, and where do you get all the data?



©2020 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. A few examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
