

# Module 1: Office 365 services

# Lab: Setting up and configuring Office 365 services

### Scenario

As one of the most experienced IT administrators at Adatum Corporation, you're responsible for Microsoft Office 365 management. To start, you want to provision your Office 365 tenant so that you can evaluate administrative tasks.

### Objectives

 After completing this lab, you'll be able to:

- Set up a Microsoft 365 lab environment.

- Configure Office 365 services.


### Lab setup

 Estimated time: 45 minutes

Virtual machines:  **LON-DC1** and  **LON-CL1**

 Usernames:  **Adatum\\Administrator** and **Adatum\\Holly**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, if necessary, you must complete the following steps:

For LON-DC1, sign in by using the following credentials:

  - Username:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

For LON-CL1, sign in by using the following credentials:

  - Username:  **Holly**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**


 In all tasks:

- Where you notice references to  **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  ***yyxxxxx*** with your unique Adatum number that you choose in Lab 1: Exercise 1, Task 1. In all tasks, where you observe references to ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com***, replace this string with the custom domain name provided by your lab hosting provider.

## Exercise 1: Setting up a Microsoft 365 lab environment

### Scenario

 The first step in starting the pilot deployment is to configure the Office 365 tenant. You need to create a new tenant using the  **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** domain name.

>  **Note:** This lab uses a standard Office 365 trial account, not a FastTrack pilot extended tenant account. Also, you need to create an account with a unique name in the form: **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**. You can use your two primary initials followed by a unique five-digit number. For example, **Adatum*AB12345***. You can also get the name from your lab setup information.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create an Office 365 E5 trial subscription.
2. Add a custom domain and verify ownership.
3. Complete the custom domain setup.
4. Verify the health of services.

#### Task 1: Create an Office 365 E5 trial subscription

1. On  **LON-CL1** computer, on the taskbar, select  **Microsoft Edge**.
2. In the address bar, input [**https://aka.ms/v2jy2f**](https://aka.ms/v2jy2f), and then select Enter.

3. On the **Office 365 E5** page, select the  **Free trial** link.

4. On the  **Thank for your choosing Office 365 E5** page, complete the following fields.  Use the following information:


  - Email address:  **Use your new Microsoft account that you created for this course or your personal email address**. Make sure that you didn't previously use this address for an Office 365 trial. After you enter your email address, select **Next**, and then select **Set up account** to proceed to the next steps.
  - First name: **Holly**
  - Last name: **Spencer**
  - Business phone number: ***Use your mobile phone number, including the international code, for your country or region***.
  - Company name:  **Adatum**
  - Organization size:  **250-999 people**
  - Country or region: Select your country or region. If not available from the list, select **United States**.


5. Select **Next**.

6. Confirm your identity by using your mobile phone. Select **Text me** option, select the code for your country or region.

7. In the **Phone number** box, enter your correct and working mobile phone number. Ensure that you select the correct country or region code.

8. Ensure that the **Text me** option is selected, and then select the **Send Verification Code** link after the phone number.

9. When you receive the confirmation text on your mobile phone, enter the code provided in the **Verification code** box. Select **Verify**.

10. On the **Create your business identity** page, create a unique domain for the company name to use in the course in the form of **Adatum*yyxxxxx***. You can use your two primary initials followed by a unique five-digit number. For example, Adatum***AB12345***. This will be your ***unique Adatum number*** throughout the course. When you enter the domain name, select **Check availability**. If the name is not available, select another name and try again. **Note**: You can also refer to your lab information and use the Office 365 Blob name provided.

11. When you find an available domain name, select **Next**.

12. On the **Create your business identity** page, fill in following data:


  - Username:  **Holly** (@Adatum*yyxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com)

  - Password:  Create a password that meets the complexity requirements. Document Holly's password, as you'll use it through all labs.

  - Confirm password: Enter the same password.


13. Select **Sign up**.
14. Wait until the Microsoft 365 tenant is provisioned, note your sign in data, and then select **Get Started**.
15. On the **Install Office** page, select **Exit setup**. Close the window that displays.
16. If the **Welcome** window displays, select **Skip**.
17. Ensure that the Microsoft 365 admin center opens. If it doesn't open, refresh the page in the browser. If the **Get your work done with Office 365** window displays, close it.

#### Task 2: Add a custom domain and verify ownership

1. Ensure that you're signed in to the Microsoft 365 admin center with admin credentials for your Office 365 E5 trial tenant. These credentials were created in the previous task (Holly Spencer) or provided by your lab hosting provider. If needed, select the **Admin** icon to access the Microsoft 365 admin center.

2. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select **Show all** on the **navigation** pane.  Select **Settings**, and then select **Domains**.  On the **Domains** page, select **Add domain**.

3. On the **Add a domain** page, in the text box, enter your domain name in the form of ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com***. You can find your custom domain name in the lab info of the hosting provider provided as **UPN Name**. If you aren't able to locate this information, ask your instructor for help.

4. Select **Use this domain**.

5. On the **How do you want to verify your domain?** page, select **Add a text record to the domain's DNS records**, and then select **Continue**.

6. On the **Verify you own this domain** page, write down the value record found in the **TXT value** row. This entry will be similar to MS=msXXXXXXXX. Record this value:

    MS=____________________________

7. Open DNS Manager console from Windows Server Administrative Tools on LON-CL1, and connect it to **LON-DC1.adatum.com**.

8. In the DNS Manager, expand **LON-DC1**, and select  **Forward Lookup Zones**.

11. Right-click **Forward Lookup Zones** or access the context menu, and select **New Zone**.

12. On the **New Zone Wizard** page, select **Next**.

13. On the **Zone Type** page, verify that **Primary zone** is selected. Clear the **Store the zone in Active Directory** check box and select **Next**.

14. On the **Zone Name** page, enter **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name provided by lab hosting provider, and select **Next**.

15. On the **Zone File** page, select **Next**.

16. On the **Dynamic Update** page, ensure that **Do not allow dynamic updates** is selected, select **Next**, and then select  **Finish**.

17. Expand **Forward Lookup Zones**, select and then right-click  **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, or access the context menu, and then select **Other New Records**.

18. Under **Select a resource record type**, scroll down to  **Text (TXT)**, and then select  **Create Record**.

19. In the **New Resource Record** box, leave the **Record name** field blank.

20. In the  **Text** field, enter **MS=ms*XXXXXXXX***, the value that you recorded in Step 4.

21. Select **OK** to create the record.

22. In the **Resource Record type** dialog box, select **Done**.

23. Right-click **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, or access the context menu, and select **New Host (A or AAAA)**.

24. In the **New Host** box, Under **Name**, enter the name of the external name server as provided by the lab hosting provider. If this name isn't provided, leave the **Name** field blank.

25. Under **IP address**, provide the IP address of the external name server as provided by the lab hosting provider.

26. Select **Add Host**, select **OK**, and then close the **New Host** dialog box.
    *Note: The following steps might not be required by all lab hosting providers. Check with your instructor if you need to create records in steps 25, 26, and 27.*
    
27. Double-click the **Start of Authority (SOA)** record or select it and then select Enter. Replace the **Primary Server** reference with the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the name server as provided by the lab hosting provider.
26. Select **OK**.

29. Double-Click **Name Server (NS)**  or select it and then select Enter. Select **Edit**. Replace the FQDN name with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the lab hosting provider. Select **Resolve**, and then select **OK** twice.
28. Switch to the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the Verify domain page, select **Verify**. Wait until the domain is verified and then proceed to the next task.

#### Task 3: Complete the custom domain setup

1. On the **How do you want to connect your domain?** page, select **Continue**.

2. On the **Add DNS records** page, verify that **Exchange and Exchange Online Protection** option is selected, then select **Advanced Options**  and select **Skype for Business**. ***Note: Although you won't be using Skype for Business in this course, as it's replaced with Teams, you need to create DNS records for Skype for Business as they are needed for Teams service.***

3. On the **Add DNS records** page, expand **MX Records**, **CNAME Records**, **TXT Records** and **SRV records**. Review the DNS records that you should add to the domain.

4. Use the same procedure from the previous task, to add MX, CNAME, SRV, and TXT records for your custom domain, by using DNS on **LON-DC1**. Select your custom domain in DNS on **LON-DC1**, right-click or access the context menu and then create MX, CNAME, SRV, or TXT records, based on values from the Microsoft 365 admin center. If you aren't sure how to do this, ask your instructor for help.

5. When you're done with adding records to DNS, switch to the Microsoft 365 admin center and select **Continue**. Ensure that you observe a **Domain setup is complete** message.

6. Select **Done**. Ensure that you observe **(Default)** after your custom domain name and that status is **Healthy**. If your custom domain name is not configured as default, perform steps 7 and 8.

7. On the **Domains** page, select the custom domain name provided by your lab hosting provider.

8. On the domain page, select **Set as default**. When you notice the message **The domain is successfully set as default**, select **Close**.

   ***Note: By configuring your custom domain name as the default domain, all users that you create in your Office 365 tenant will have sign-in name and email address on your custom domain name. Only the first global admin account that you created during tenant provisioning will still use the Adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com domain name.***

#### Task 4: Verify the health of services

1. Use  **Service health** on the **navigation** menu to display the **Service health** dashboard.

2. Review any service interruption records and additional information on the  **Incidents** page.

>  **Note:** During Microsoft testing, on rare occasions Office 365 did not create the trial tenant properly. As a result, the tenant didn't have all the services available to it. If this happens to you, create a new trial tenant by using a different business email address (a Microsoft account).

3. Close Microsoft Edge.

4. If you receive a prompt, select **Close all tabs**.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully provisioned the Office 365 tenant account for Adatum Corporation.

#### Task 5: Configure security defaults for Azure AD

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in navigation pane, select **Azure Active Directory**. New tab will open.

2. On the My Dashborad page, open navigation menu in the top left corner, select **Azure Active Directory**, then open navigation menu again and select **Properties**.

3. Scroll down, and select **Manage security defaults** link.

4. In the Enable Security defaults window, select **No**, select **Other**, type "lab environment" in the textbox and select **Save**.

5. Close Adatum - Azure Active Directory tab in browser.

   >  **Note:** In the production environment, you should not disable security defaults for Azure AD. We are doing this only for lab purposes, so that some scripts in later labs can run without issues.



## Exercise 2: Configuring Office 365 services

### Scenario

 In this exercise, you'll verify the configuration of your Office 365 tenant and configure services and add-ins.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Review services and add-ins.

2. Verify security and privacy settings.

3. Determine current licenses.

4. Update the organization profile.

5. Prepare for the next module.


#### Task 1: Review services and add-ins

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in as **Holly\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password.

3. Open  **Services** from the **Settings > Org settings** menu in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

4. Review the Cortana settings.

5. Review the Mail settings.


#### Task 2: Verify security and privacy settings

1. Open  **Security &amp; privacy** on the **Org settings** page in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

2. Change the password policy to require password expiration after 42 days.

3. Review the **Customer lockbox** settings.

#### Task 3: Determine current licenses

1. Open **Licenses** beneath the **Billing** node in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

2. Review the available licenses for the Office 365 E5 subscription.

3. Select **Products &amp; services**, and then review the Office 365 E5 trial subscription.

#### Task 4: Update the organization profile

1. Review the **Organization profile** tab on the **Org settings** page in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

2. Review the **Release preferences** settings.

3. Review the **Custom themes** settings for your organization.

4. Review other available settings.


7. Close all windows on **LON-CL1**, and then sign out.


#### Task 5: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running for the next module.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully verified the configuration of your Office 365 tenant.



## Lab review

**Question**:
How many licenses are available in your Office 365 subscription?

**Question**:
What release track is your organization on?


©2020 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
