



# Module 4: Administering and troubleshooting Exchange Online

# Lab: Administering and troubleshooting Exchange Online 



### Scenario

Adatum Corporation has moved most of its users to Microsoft 365. You now must ensure that you can manage Exchange recipients in Microsoft Exchange Online. You also must ensure that you can delegate permissions in Exchange Online.


### Objectives

 After completing this lab, you'll be able to:

- Configure and administer Exchange Online recipients.

- Delegate administrative permissions.

- Configure client access policies.

- Troubleshoot Exchange Online recipient issues.

> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently because of updates to Microsoft 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they aren't available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.


### Lab setup

 Estimated time: 75 minutes

Virtual machines: **LON-CL1**

 Username: **Adatum\Holly**

 Password: **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you'll use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, if necessary, you must complete the following steps:

Sign in to LON-CL1 by using the following credentials:

 - Username: **Holly**

 - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

 - Domain: **Adatum**




 In all tasks where you note references to **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, replace ***yyxxxxx*** with your unique Adatum number, that you chose in Lab 1 - Exercise 1, Task 1. In all tasks, where you note references to ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com***, replace this string with your custom domain name provided by your lab hosting provider.



## Exercise 1: Configuring and administering Exchange Online recipients

### Scenario

 In preparation for migrating more users to Microsoft 365, you must ensure that you can manage Exchange Online recipients by using the Exchange admin center and Windows PowerShell. Also, you must create distribution groups and resource mailboxes.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Manage a user mailbox.
2. Create groups and assign mailboxes.
3. Create a shared mailbox.
4. Connect to Exchange Online with Windows PowerShell.
5. Create resource mailboxes.
6. Explore the new Exchange admin center.



#### Task 1: Manage a user mailbox

1. On **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, navigate to [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com) and sign in as **Holly\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** with Holly's password.

2. Open the Microsoft 365 admin center and then open Exchange Admin center.

3. Disable IMAP access for Amy Santiago and enable archive for this user. Name the archive folder **AmyArchive**.



#### Task 2: Create groups and assign mailboxes

1. Use the Exchange admin center to create a distribution group named **DLGroup1**.

2. Add **Adam Hobbs**, **Ada Russell**, and **Amy Santiago** as members.

3. Delegate the **Send on Behalf** permission to **Amy Santiago**.

 

#### Task 3: Create a shared mailbox

1. Use the Exchange admin center to create a shared mailbox named **Projects**.

2. Add **Ada Russell** and **Abbi Skinner** as users who can access this shared mailbox.

3. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as **Ada Russell** and verify that you can open the **Projects** shared mailbox.



#### Task 4: Connect to Exchange Online with Windows PowerShell

1. On the **LON-CL1**desktop, right-click **Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell** or access the context menu, and then select **Run as administrator**.

2. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following cmdlet:

```powershell
$credential = Get-Credential
```

3. Sign in as **Holly\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa$$word**.

4. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following cmdlet:

```powershell
Connect-MsolService -Credential $credential
```

5. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following cmdlet:

```powershell
$exchangeSession = New-PSSession -ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri "https://outlook.office365.com/powershell-liveid/" -Credential $credential -Authentication "Basic" -AllowRedirection
```

6. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following cmdlet:

```powershell
Import-PSSession $exchangeSession -DisableNameChecking
```

7. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following cmdlet:

```powershell
Get-Mailbox
```

> **Note:** This command returns the list of mailboxes and verifies that you can connect to your Office 365 subscription.


#### Task 5: Create resource mailboxes

1. In the Exchange Admin center, open **resources**.

2. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following cmdlet:

```powershell
New-Mailbox -Name "Conference Room" -Room
```

3. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following cmdlet:

```powershell
Set-CalendarProcessing "Conference Room" -AutomateProcessing AutoAccept
```

4. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following cmdlet:

```powershell
New-Mailbox -Name "Demonstration Laptop" -Equipment
```

5. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following cmdlet:

```powershell
Set-CalendarProcessing "Demonstration Laptop" -AutomateProcessing AutoAccept
```

> **Note:** If you receive an error when you run the **Set-CalendarProcessing** cmdlet for either of these objects, wait a few moments and repeat.

6. In the Exchange Admin center, select **Refresh**. You should be able to find both resources.

7. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following cmdlet:

```powershell
Set-Mailbox "Conference Room" -ResourceCapacity "25"
```

8. In the Exchange Admin center, select **Refresh**. You should be able to observe the **Capacity** you configured on the **details** pane on the right side of the screen.

#### Task 6: Explore the new Exchange Online admin center
1. Use the classic Exchange admin center to open New Exchange admin center by selecting a link on the **navigation** pane.
2. In the new Exchange admin center, review resource mailboxes and verify that you find the **Conference room** mailbox.
3. Review the **reports** pane and select **inbound and outbound mail flow reports**.
4. Review additional options in the new Exchange admin center by selecting the **More features** link.
5. Return to the classic Exchange admin center.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you'll have created and configured Exchange Online recipients.


## Exercise 2: Configuring delegated administration

### Scenario

 Adatum has delegated a few administrative tasks in Exchange 2016 on-premises and would like to duplicate this configuration in Exchange Online. You must configure delegated administration to achieve this task.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Assign users to built-in role groups.

2. Create a new admin role and assign a user to it.

3. Create a new role assignment policy.



#### Task 1: Assign users to built-in role groups

1. In the Exchange admin center, on the **permissions** tab, on the **admin roles** tab, select **Organization management**, and then select **Edit**.

2. Add **Ada** as a member of the role.



#### Task 2: Create a new admin role and assign a user to it

1. Switch to Windows PowerShell.

2. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following cmdlets:

```powershell
Enable-OrganizationCustomization
New-RoleGroup -Name BranchOfficeAdmins -roles "Mail Recipients", "Distribution Groups", "Move Mailboxes", "Mail Recipient Creation"
```

3. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following cmdlet:

```powershell
Add-RoleGroupMember "BranchOfficeAdmins" -Member Amy
```

4. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following cmdlet:

```powershell
Get-RoleGroupMember "BranchOfficeAdmins"
```

5. In the Exchange admin center, select **Refresh**. Ensure that you can find the new **BranchOffice Admins** role group. Also, verify roles that are added and verify that **Amy** is a member.



#### Task 3: Create a new role assignment policy

1. In the Exchange Admin center, select **user roles**.

2. Switch to Windows PowerShell.

3. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following command:

```powershell
New-RoleAssignmentPolicy "Limited Mailbox Configuration" -Roles MyBaseOptions,MyAddressInformation,MyDisplayName
```

4. To change the default role assignment policy for new mailboxes, in the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following command:

```powershell
Set-RoleAssignmentPolicy "Limited Mailbox Configuration" -IsDefault
```

5. When prompted, enter **Y**, and then select Enter.

6. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, run the following command:

```powershell
Remove-PSSession $exchangeSession
```

7. In the Exchange admin center, select **Refresh**. You can find the new role assignment policy.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you'll have configured delegated administration of your Exchange Online organization.


## Exercise 3: Configuring client access policies

### Scenario

 Adatum wants to restrict a few options for Outlook on the web and for mobile clients. You must configure Outlook Web App policies, mobile device access, and mailbox policies to accomplish this task.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure Outlook Web App policies.

2. Configure mobile device access.

3. Configure a mailbox policy for mobile devices.



#### Task 1: Configure Outlook Web App policies

1. On **LON-CL1**, in the Exchange admin center, browse to the **Outlook Web App policies** in **permissions**.

2. Create a new Outlook Web App policy named **Limited features** with the following features disabled:

 - **Instant messaging**

 - **Text messaging**

 - **Unified messaging**

 - **LinkedIn contact sync**

 - **Journaling**

 - **Direct file access** for private computers.

3. Associate the **Limited features** Outlook Web App policy with **Abbi Skinner**.

4. In Outlook, create a new message for **Abbi Skinner**, and then attach the **C:\\Windows\\Logs\\DISM\\dism.log** file.

5. Sign in as **Abbi\@<i></i>Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** with the password assigned to Abbi.

6. Verify that **Abbi** is unable to access the attachment in the new message.

> **Note:** In a few cases, it might take a few minutes for the new Outlook Web App mailbox policy to take effect.


#### Task 2: Configure mobile device access

1. On **LON-CL1**, in the Exchange admin center, browse to **mobile device access** in **mobile**.

2. Edit the **Exchange ActiveSync Access settings** to quarantine new mobile devices and notify **Holly Spencer**.



#### Task 3: Configure a mailbox policy for mobile devices

1. On **LON-CL1**, browse to **mobile device mailbox policies** in **mobile**.

2. Modify the **Default** policy to:

 - **Require a password**

 - **Allow simple passwords**

 - **Minimum password length** of **4**


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you'll have configured client access policies.


## Exercise 4: Troubleshooting Exchange Online

### Scenario

 In this exercise, you'll first run a script to simulate a problem. Your task is to identify the issue and resolve it.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Generate a problem.

2. Identify and resolve issues.

3. Prepare for the next module.



#### Task 1: Generate a problem

1. Open **Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell** with administrative privileges.

2. Execute the **Mod4\_CreateProblem.ps1** script from the **C:\\LabFiles\\Mod04** folder.

3. Provide the **Holly\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** credentials when prompted.



#### Task 2: Identify and resolve issues

1. Open the Office 365 sign-in page and sign in as **Ada\@<i></i>Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**.

2. Try to open Outlook on the web for **Ada Russell**. You won't be able to do so.

3. Identify and troubleshoot this issue so that Ada Russell is able to access their mailbox via Outlook on the web.

4. Try to open the **Projects** shared mailbox from Ada's mailbox and send email from Projects mailbox. You won't be able to do so.

5. Identify and troubleshoot this issue so that **Ada Russell** is able to send email from the **Projects** shared mailbox.



#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module

- Keep the virtual machines running for the lab in the next module.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you'll have troubleshot Exchange Online.



## Lab review

**Question**
Why was user Ada Russell unable to access Outlook on the web?

**Question**
What do you need to do to manage your Exchange Online tenant by using Windows PowerShell?



©2020 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

 
