# Module 3: Administering and troubleshooting directory synchronization and directory objects

# Lab answer key: Administering directory synchronization, users, and groups in Microsoft 365
## Exercise 1: Configuring Azure AD Connect

#### Task 1: Implement directory synchronization with Azure AD Connect

1. On the  **LON-DS1** computer, open Internet Explorer and then navigate to [**https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=47594**](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=47594).

2. Choose to download Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect. If needed, add **https\://download.microsoft.com** to **Trusted Sites** in Internet Explorer. 

3. After **AzureADConnect.msi** downloads, run it. Wait until it installs necessary components.

4. On the  **Welcome to Azure AD Connect** page, select **I agree to the license terms and privacy notice**, and then select  **Continue**.

5. On the  **Express Settings** page, review the tasks that will be performed, and then select **Use express settings**.

6. On the  **Connect to Azure AD** page, enter **Holly\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, in **USERNAME** text box, enter Holly's password in the **PASSWORD** text box, and then select **Next**.

7. On the  **Connect to AD DS** page, enter **Adatum\\Administrator** in the **USERNAME** text box, enter **Pa55w.rd** in the **PASSWORD** text box, and then select **Next**.

8. On the  **Azure AD sign-in configuration** page, select **Continue without matching all UPN suffixes to verified domains**, and then select  **Next**.

9. On the  **Ready to configure** page, select **Install**.

10. After Azure AD Connect configuration completes, select  **Exit**, and then wait for 4-5 minutes for the initial synchronization to finish.

11. Open Internet Explorer on  **LON-DS1**, and then navigate to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com). Sign in as  **Holly\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, with Holly's password.

12. Select  **Admin**, expand  **Users**, and then select  **Active users**. select **Refresh**.

13. Verify that you can observe users from your on-premises AD DS.

14. Leave the Microsoft 365 admin center open.


#### Task 2: Run the Azure AD Connect wizard to modify sync options

1. On the  **LON-DS1** computer, double-click the **Azure AD Connect** icon on the desktop or select it and then select Enter.

2. In the  **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** window, select **Configure**.

3. On the  **Additional tasks** page, select **View or export current configuration**, and then select  **Next**.

4. On the  **Review Your Solution** page, review the configured options for directory synchronization. These options were configured when initial synchronization was performed in previous task.

5. Select the  **Previous** button.

6. On the  **Additional tasks** page, select **Customize synchronization options**, and then select  **Next**.

7. On the  **Connect to Azure AD** page, if needed, enter **Holly\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, in the **USERNAME** field, enter Holly's password in the **PASSWORD** field, and then select **Next**.

8. On the  **Connect your directories** page, verify that **Adatum.com (Active Directory)** is listed as the configured directory, and then select **Next**.

9. On the  **Domain and OU filtering** page, select **Sync selected domain and OUs**, and then expand  **Adatum**. **com**. Select only the  **IT**,  **Marketing** and **Managers** organizational units (OUs), deselect others, and then select **Next**.

10. On the  **Optional features** page, review the selected options. Verify that only **Password hash synchronization** is selected. Select **Password writeback**, and then select  **Next**.

11. On the  **Ready to configure** page, select **Configure**. Wait until the process of configuration completes. This should take few minutes.

12. On the **Configuration complete** page, select **Exit**. Wait 4-5 minutes until synchronization completes.


#### Task 3: Configure synchronization services for OUs and object attributes

1. On  **LON-DS1**, select  **Start**, expand the  **Azure AD Connect** folder, and then select **Synchronization Service**.

2. In the  **Synchronization Service Manager on LON-DS1** window, on the **Operations** tab, verify that the tasks listed are successful. Note: A few tasks might have in-progress status which is normal if synchronization is in progress. Also, a few tasks might appear as Completed-export-errors and completed-no-objects. Wait until synchronization is completed before proceeding to the next step.

3. Select the **Connectors** tab.

4. In the  **Connectors** tab, double-click **Adatum.com** or select it and then select Enter. 

5. In the  **Properties** dialog box, select **Configure Directory Partitions**.

6. Select  **Containers**.

7. In the  **Credentials** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and then select **OK**:

  - Username:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum.com**

8. In the  **Select Containers** dialog box, select the **Development** check box, and then select **OK**.
9. Select  **Select Object Types** in the navigation menu.
10. In the list of object types, select  **device**.
11. On the navigation menu, select  **Select Attributes**. 
12. In the list of attributes, select the  **secretary** and **street** attributes.
13. To close the  **Properties** dialog window, select **OK** twice. 
14. On  **LON-DS1**, open the  **Start** screen, expand the **Azure AD Connect** folder, and then select **Synchronization Rules Editor**.
15. In  **Synchronization Rules Editor**, in  **Direction**, select  **Inbound**, and then select  **Add new rule**.
16. In the  **Create inbound synchronization rule** dialog box, in the **Name** text box, enter **In from AD - User DoNotSyncFilter**.
17. In the  **Connected System** drop-down list, select **Adatum.com**.
18. In the  **Connected System Object Type** drop-down list, select **user**.
19. In the  **Metaverse Object Type** drop-down list, select **person**.
20. In the  **Link Type** drop-down list, select **Join**.
21. In the  **Precedence** text box, enter **50**.
22. Select  **Next**.
23. In the  **Create inbound synchronization rule** dialog box, on the **Scoping filter** tab, select **Add Group**, and then select  **Add Clause**.
24. In the  **Add scoping filters** form:

  - In the  **Attribute** drop-down list, select **msDS-cloudExtensionAttribute15**.

  - In the  **Operator** drop-down list, select **EQUAL**.

  - In the  **Value** text box, enter **NoSync**.


25. Select  **Next**.

26. On the **Add join rules** page, select **Next**.

27. On the **Add transformations** page, select **Add transformation**.

28. In the  **Flowtype** drop-down list, select **Constant**. 

29. In the  **Target Attribute** drop-down list, select **cloudFiltered**.

30. In the  **Source** text box, enter **True**.

31. To save the rule, select  **Add**, and then close the  **Synchronization Rules Editor** window.

32. Open Windows PowerShell from the  **Start** menu. In Windows PowerShell, input the following command, and then select Enter:

```powershell
Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Initial
```

>  **Note:** This command will manually start synchronization process between AD DS and Azure AD. If you get an error when executing this command, input **Import-Module "C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Azure AD Sync\\Bin\\ADSync\\ADSync.psd1"**, select **Enter** and then repeat **Start-ADSyncSyncCycle** command.



>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Azure AD Connect.




## Exercise 2: Managing Microsoft 365 users and groups by using the Microsoft 365 admin center

#### Task 1: Assign and manage licenses for users

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, expand **Users** and then in the  **Active users** list, select **Abbi Skinner**.

2. In the pane, select **Manage username**. In the **Manage username** window, select **customdomainname.hostdomain.com** from the dropdown list, where **customdomainame** is your unique domain name and select **Save changes**. If your custom domain is already selected, make no changes. Select back arrow. 

3. In the **Abbi Skinner** window, select  **Licenses and apps**.

4. In the **Select location** drop-down list, select **United Kingdom**.

5. Enable the  **Office 365 E5** license.

6. Review all enabled features in this license plan by expanding **Apps**.

7. Select  **Save changes** , and then close  **Abbi Skinner** window.

8. Repeat steps 1 to 7 for  **Ada Russell**,  **Adam Hobbs**, and  **Beth Burke**.

9. In the  **Active users** list, select **Ada Russell**.

10. In the pane, select  **Licenses and Apps**.

11. Expand **Apps** and then disable the following features:  **PowerApps for Office 365, Sway** and **Microsoft Bookings**.

12. Select  **Save changes**, and then close the window.



#### Task 2: Create groups in Office 365

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select  **Home**.
2. On the navigation menu, expand  **Groups**, select  **Active Groups**, and then select  **Add a group**.
3. On the  **Choose a group type** page, select **Security**, and then select **Next**. 
4. On the **Set up the basics** page in the  **Name** text box, enter **Production**. In the  **Description** text box, enter **Production department users**, and then select  **Next**.
5. On the **Review and finish adding group** page, select **Create group**. On the **New group created** page, select **Close**.
6. Select the  **Production** group, and then on the **Production** page, select **Members**, and then select  **View all and manage members**. Note: You might need to click Refresh on the toolbar if you don't see Production group in the list.
7. Select  **Add members**, select  **Lindsey Gates**, select  **Christie Thomas**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** two times. Note : If you don't observe these users listed, enter their names in the **Search to add members** text box.
8. Select  **Add a group**.
9. On the  **Choose a group type** page, select **Microsoft 365 (recommended)**, and then select **Next**.
10. On the **Set up the basics** page, in the  **Name** text box, enter **Accounts**. In the  **Description** text box, enter **Accounts department users** and then select **Next**.
11. On the **Assign owners** page, enter **Abbi@customdomainname.hostdomain.com** and then select **Next**.
12. On the **Edit settings** page, in the **Group email address** field, enter **Accounts**. In the **Privacy** section, select **Private - Only members can see group content**. Ensure that **Create a team for this group** is selected. Select **Next**.
13. On the **Review and finish adding group** page select **Create group**.
14. On the **New group created** page, select **Close**.
15. Select the  **Accounts** group, and then on the **Accounts** page, select **Members**, and then select  **View all and manage members**.
16. Select  **Add members**, select  **Francisco Chaves**, select  **Sallie McIntosh**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** two times.



#### Task 3: Manage Microsoft 365 groups

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, verify that you can observe groups that are synced with your on-premises Active Directory and that you can observe the following groups created in cloud:

  -  **Production**

  -  **Accounts**

2. In the  **Groups** list, select the **Production** group, and then on the **Production** page, select **Members**, and then select  **View all and manage members**.

3. Select  **Add members**, select  **Amy Santiago**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** two times.

4. Open the  **Production** page and ensure that **Amy Santiago** now appears in the **Members** list.

5. Select  **Delete group** icon on the toolbar.

6. On the  **Delete Production?** page, select **Delete group**, and then select  **Close**.

7. On the navigation menu, point to  **Users**, and then select  **Active users**.

8. Confirm that the  **Amy Santiago** account still exists in the list of users.

9. Leave the browser window open.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created users and groups in Office 365 and managed user licenses.



## Exercise 3: Managing password policies in Microsoft 365

#### Task 1: Configure the Microsoft 365 password policy

1. On the navigation menu in the Microsoft 365 admin center, point to  **Settings**, select **Org settings** and then select  **Security &amp; privacy** tab. select **Password expiration policy**. 

2. On the **Password expiration policy** page, select **Set user passwords to expire after a number of days**.

3. In the **Days before passwords expire** text box, enter **14**.

>  **Note:** You would not do this in the real world. This is a classroom example that allows you to verify the policy applied in the next exercise task.

4. In the  **Days before a user is notified about expiration** box, leave the default value of **14**, and then select  **Save**.

5. Verify that the  **Password policy has been updated** message appears at the beginning of the page, and then select **Close**.

6. Close browser window.



#### Task 2: Validate the password policy

1. Open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in as  **Lindsey\@<i></i>Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name, with the temporary password you noted before.

3. On the  **Update your password** page, enter the temporary password in the **Current password** text box, enter a new password in the **New password** and **Confirm password** text boxes, and then select **Update password and sign in**.

4. On the top of the window, verify that the notification appears with the following information:  **Time to change your password. Your password will expire in 13 days.**

>  **Note:** It might take a several minutes before the password change notification appears. You can safely proceed with other tasks in this lab even if you don't get notification.


>  **Note:** You have now verified that your password policy is applied. In a real-world scenario, after you verified that the password policy was applied, you would need to increase the number of days before the password expired, according to your organizational policy.


5. Close Internet Explorer window.



#### Task 3: Configure multifactor authentication

1. Open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in as  **Holly\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number, with Holly's password.

3. In the Microsoft Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

4. On the  **Home** page, on the navigation menu, point to **Settings**, and then select  **Org settings**.

5. On the  **Org settings** page, select **Multi-factor authentication**.

6. On the  **multi-factor authentication** page, select **Configure multi-factor authentication**.

7. On the  **multi-factor authentication** page, select the **Amy Santiago** check box, and then select **Enable**.

8. In the  **About enabling multi-factor auth** pop-up, select **enable multi-factor auth**, and then select  **close**.

9. On the  **multi-factor authentication** page, select **service settings**.

10. Under  **verification options**,  select the **Allow users to remember multifactor authentication on devices they trust** option.

11. Select  **save**, and then select  **close**.

12. Close Internet Explorer. Close all open windows.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured the Office 365 password policy and validated the policy.



## Exercise 4: Troubleshooting synchronization issues with user objects in Microsoft 365 

#### Task 1: Produce a problem in AD DS

1. On  **LON-CL1**, select **Start**, enter **powershell** and then in the right pane, in the Windows PowerShell section, select **Run as Administrator**. In the User Account Control window, select **Yes**.

7. In the Windows PowerShell prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

```powershell
CD C:\Labfiles\Mod03\
```

3. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

```powershell
Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted
```

4. Enter  **Y**, and then select Enter.

5. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

```powershell
.\Mod3_CreateProblem.ps1
```

>  **Note:** Wait until the script completes and notice the following changes.

This Windows PowerShell script will make changes on several objects in AD DS.



#### Task 2: Resolve synchronization issues

1. On  **LON-CL1**, ensure that you are signed in as **Adatum\\Administrator** with password **Pa55w.rd**.

1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to [**https://github.com/microsoft/idfix**](https://github.com/microsoft/idfix).

1. On the **Microsoft/idFix** page, open the **publish** folder, select the **setup.exe** file and select the **Download** button.

4. Wait for the download to complete.

5. In the File Explorer window, browse to the  **Downloads** folder, launch the downloaded **Setup** and complete the setup with default values.

9. In the  **IdFix Privacy Statement** message box, select **OK**.

10. Select  **Query**. You should notice several errors.

11. Select the  **ERROR** column to sort the character errors to the beginning of the list.

>  **Note:** Ignore top-level domain errors, which cannot be fixed by the IdFix tool.


12. In the  **An Dung Dao** row, verify the proposed solution in the **UPDATE** column, and then in the **ACTION** column, select **EDIT**.

13. In the  **Klemen Sic** row, verify the proposed solution in the **UPDATE** column, and then in the **ACTION** column, select **EDIT**.

14. In the  **Ngoc Bich Tran** row, verify the proposed solution in the **UPDATE** column, and then in the **ACTION** column, select **EDIT**. 

15. On the toolbar, select  **Apply**.

17. In the  **Apply Pending** dialog box, select **Yes**. Notice the  **COMPLETE** status in the **ACTION** column, which indicates successful writes.

20. On the toolbar, select  **Query**, and then verify that the errors are corrected. If you notice other errors present, correct them using the same method.

26. Close all open windows.
27. Sign out from LON-CL1, and sign in as **Adatum\\Holly**.


>  **Note:** Where there are format and duplicate errors for distinguished names, the **UPDATE** column either contains the same string as the **VALUE** column, or the **UPDATE** column entry is blank; in either case, this means that IdFix cannot suggest a remediation for the error. You can either fix these errors outside of IdFix or manually remediate them within IdFix. You can also export the results and use Windows PowerShell to remediate a large number of errors.



>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have troubleshot synchronization issues with user objects in Office 365.



©2020 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
