# Module 6: Administering and troubleshooting SharePoint Online

## Lab Answer Key: Configuring and administering SharePoint Online 

# Exercise 1: Configuring SharePoint Online settings


>[!Note] When asked to sign in during this lab, if you are prompted by the **Help us protect your account** dialog box, select **Skip for now (14 days until this is required).** 

## Task 1: Configure settings

1.  Ensure that you are signed in to the **LON-CL1** virtual machine as +++Adatum\Holly+++ with the password +++Pa55w.rd+++

2.  On **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, select **Microsoft Edge**, and then go to +++https://portal.office.com+++.

3.  +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com+++ (where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum.com number) with Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++.

4.  In the **Microsoft Office 365 portal**, select **Admin**.

5.  In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, if needed, select **Show all**, and then select **SharePoint**.
    
6.  If **One place for SharePoint administration** appears, select **Got it**.
    
7.  In the navigation menu, select **Settings**.

8.  On the **Settings** page, select **classic settings page**.

9.  On the **Settings** page, in the **Site Collection Storage Management** section, ensure that **Manual** is selected, and then select **OK**.
    
10. Switch to the **SharePoint admin center**, and on the navigation pane, expand **Policies** and then select **Sharing**.
    
11.  In the **File and folder links** section, verify that **Anyone with the link** is selected, and then select **Save** if needed.

## Task 2: Configure user profiles

1.  On the navigation menu of **SharePoint admin center**, select **More features** and then select **Open** in the User profiles section.
    
2.  In the **User Profiles** window, under **People**, select **Manage User Profiles**.
    
3.  In the **Find profiles** dialog box, enter **Ada**, and then select **Find**.
    
4.  In the **Account name** list, select **Ada Russell**.

5.  In the untitled pop up dialog box, select **Edit My Profile**, and then select **Browse** (book icon) in the **Manager** box.
    
6.  In the **select people** dialog box, select **Tenant**, in the **Find** text box, enter +++Holly+++, and then select **search** (the magnifier icon).
    
7.  Select **Holly Spencer** that has an email address, and then select **OK**.
    
8.  Select **Save and Close**.

9.  Switch back to **SharePoint admin center**, and in the details pane, select **Open** in the  **user profiles** section.
    
10. In the **My Site Settings** section, select **Setup My Sites**.

11. Scroll down to **My Site Cleanup**.

12. In the **Secondary Owner** box, select **Browse** (the book icon).

13. In the **select people** dialog box, select **Tenant**, in the **Find** text box, enter +++Holly+++, and then select **search** (the magnifier icon).
    
14. Select **Holly Spencer** that has an email address, and then select **OK**.
    
15. Scroll down, and then select **OK**.

## Task 3: Configure apps

1.  Switch to the **SharePoint admin center** window, and on the **More features** page, select **Open** in the **Apps** section.
    
2.  On the **Apps** page, select **Configure Store Settings**.

3.  In the **Apps for Office from the Store** section, select **No** to disable apps from starting when documents are opened in the browser.
    
4.  Select **OK**.

**Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured the SharePoint Online service settings.

# Exercise 2: Creating and configuring a SharePoint site collection

## Task 1: Create a site collection by using the SharePoint admin center

1. In **SharePoint admin center**, on the navigation menu, select **Sites** and then select **Active sites**.

2. Select **+Create**, and in the **Create a site** blade, select **Team site**.

3. In the **Site name** text box, enter **MarketingTeam**. 

4. In the **Group owner** text box, enter +++Holly+++, and then select **Holly Spencer**, **Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com**.

5. Select **Next**, and then, on the **MarketingTeam** blade, select **Finish**.

6. In the **Active sites** list, select **MarketingTeam**. 

7. On the **MarketingTeam** blade, select **Policies**. 

8. In the **External sharing** section, select **Edit**.

9. On the **Sharing** blade, select **Anyone**, and then select **Save**. Close the MarketingTeam blade.

    > [!Note]Microsoft SharePoint Online provisions the new marketing site. This process can take a few minutes. You can refresh the page to  check the progress.

## Task 2: Create a site collection by using Windows PowerShell

1.  On **LON-CL1**, open a new **Microsoft Edge** tab, and then go to +++https://aka.ms/f04q5o+++.

    > [!Note]This is to download and install the SharePoint Online Management Shell from the Microsoft Download Center.

2.  On the **SharePoint Online Management Shell** download page, select **Download**.
    
3.  In **Microsoft Edge**, select the **Open file** link for the newly downloaded file.
    
4.  In the **SharePoint Online Management Shell Setup** wizard, select the **I accept the terms in the License Agreement** check box, and then select **Install**.
    
5.  If a **User Account Control** dialog box appears, select **Yes**.

6.  When the installation completes, select **Finish**.

7.  Select **Start**, enter **sharepoint**, right-click or access the context menu **SharePoint Online Management Shell**, select **More** and then select **Run as
    administrator**.
    
8.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, select **Yes**.

9.  At the command prompt, enter the following command (where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum domain name):

    ```
    Connect-SPOService -Url https://adatum@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi)    .TenantPrefix-admin.sharepoint.com
    ```

10. When prompted, sign in as +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com+++, (where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum domain name). In the **Password** box,  enter Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++, and then select **OK**.
    
11. At the command prompt, enter the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number:

    ```
    New-SPOSite -Url https://Adatum@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi)    .TenantPrefix.sharepoint.com/sites/Research -Owner Holly@@lab.CloudCredential    (M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com -StorageQuota 500 -NoWait     -Title "Research Project"
    ```

12. Close the **Administrator: SharePoint Online Management Shell** window.
13. Switch to **Microsoft Edge**, and select the **Manage site collections** tab. Refresh the page and verify that Research site is being created.

## Task 3: Configure permissions on the site collections

1. In **Microsoft Edge**, in **SharePoint admin center**, ensure that you are on the **Active sites** page.

2. Select the check box next to **MarketingTeam**.

3. On the ribbon, select **Permissions**, and then select **Manage additional admins**.

4. In the **Manage additional admins** blade, in the **Enter a name or email address** text box, enter
   **Ada**, and then select **Ada Russell**. 

5. Select **Save**.

6. Open an InPrivate window, go to +++https://Adatum@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*.sharepoint.com/sites/marketingteam+++, and then sign in as +++Ada@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++ with Ada's password, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name. 

7. Select the **Settings** icon (the wheel icon), and then select **Site permissions**.

8. On the **Permissions** blade, select **Advanced permissions settings**. 

9. On the **PERMISSIONS** tab, on the ribbon, select **Site Collection Administrators**. Verify that in addition to the owners of the site, Ada Russell is listed. 

10. Select **Cancel** and then close the **Microsoft Edge** tab.

## Task 4: Verify access to the site collections

1.  On **LON-CL1**, in **Microsoft Edge**, open an InPrivate window.

2.  Go to +++https://Adatum@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*.sharepoint.com/sites/marketingteam+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.
    
3. Sign in as +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, with Beth's password.  


    > [!Note]You need permission to access this site, and you need to send an access request for permission to observe the site.

4. In the **You need permission to access this site** dialog box, select the existing text, enter +++Please enable Beth's access to this site+++, and then select **Request Access**.

5. Close **Microsoft Edge**.

6. In the **Microsoft Edge** window that is still open, open a new tab, and then go to +++https://Adatum@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*.sharepoint.com/sites/marketingteam+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

7. If necessary, +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, with Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++.

8. Select the **Settings** icon (the wheel icon), and then select **Site permissions**.

9. On the **Permissions** blade, select **Advanced permissions settings**. 

10. On the **PERMISSIONS** tab, in the **People are waiting for your approval so that they can access this site. Show access requests and invitations** banner, select the **Show access requests and invitations** link.

11. Verify that Beth's request is listed, and then select **Approve**.

12. Return to the **Advanced permissions settings** page by selecting back in the browser window. Refresh the page.

13. Select **MarketingTeam Members**.

14. Verify that **Beth's account** is listed.

15. Select **New**, and then select **Add Users**.

16. In the box at the top, enter **Ella**, select **Ella Perry**, and then select **Share**.

17. In **Microsoft Edge**, open a new InPrivate window, and then connect to +++https://Adatum@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

18. Sign in as +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, with Beth's password. 

19. Verify that you can access the site.

20. Select **Beth Burke**, and then select **Sign out**.

21. Go to +++https://adatum@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

22. Sign in as +++Ella@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*.onmicrosoft.com+++, with Ella's password. 

23. Verify that you can access the site.

24. Close **Microsoft Edge**.

**Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created and configured SharePoint Online site collections.

# Exercise 3: Configuring and verifying external user sharing

## Task 1: Configure global settings for external user sharing

1.  On **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, **signed in as Holly**, switch to the tab named **SharePoint admin center**.
    
2.  Expand **Policies** and then select **Sharing**.

3.  Verify that **Anyone with the link** is selected.

4.  Select the **These links must expire within this many days** check box, enter +++7+++ in the box, and then select **Save**.

## Task 2: Configure a site collection for external user sharing

1. In **Microsoft Edge**, select **Sites** and then select **Active Sites**.

2. Select the **MarketingTeam** site.

3. On the **MarketingTeam** blade, select the **Policies** tab.

4. In the **External sharing** section, select **Edit**.

5. Verify that **Site content can be shared with** is set to **Anyone**. 

6. Also check that **Expiration of Anyone links** is **Same as organization-level setting (7 days)**.

7. Select **Save**.

8. Wait for the operation to complete, which might take about five minutes.

9. Close **Microsoft Edge**.

    > [!Note]In the following steps, you will give access to the site collection to a Microsoft account of your choice. We recommend that you use a Microsoft account that you already have. If you do not want to use your private Microsoft account, please create a new Microsoft account at https://live.com.

10. Open Microsoft Edge and then go to +++https://Adatum@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*.sharepoint.com/sites/marketingteam+++, where  ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

11. +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, with Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++.

12. Select **Settings**, and then select **Site permissions**.

13. Expand the **Site members** list and review the current members: Beth, Ella, and MarketingTeam Members.

14. Select **Invite people**, and then select **Share site only**.

15. In the unlabeled text box, enter the email address of the Microsoft account you want to use. Select the email address that displays beneath the text box.

16. In the **Add a message** text box, enter **You can now access this shared site of Adatum Corporation**.

17. Select **Add**.

18. Close the **Permissions** blade, and in the navigation pane, select **Documents**.

19. Select **New**, and then select **Word document**.

20. In the **Word Online** window, enter some text, wait to check if **Saved** appears in the document title, and then in Microsoft Edge, select the **MarketingTeam** tab, and then select **Documents**. 

21. In the document list, select the ellipsis (**...**) next to the document you created, and then select **Share**.

22. In the **Enter a name** or **email address** box, enter the email address of the Microsoft account you want to use. Select the email address, and then select **Send**.

23. Close **Microsoft Edge**.

## Task 3: Verify external user sharing

1.  Open **Microsoft Edge**, and then browse to +++https://outlook.com+++.
    
2.  Sign in with your Microsoft account.

    > [!Note]The Inbox should refer to two emails from the **Microsoft Online Services Team**. If the messages are not in the Inbox, inspect the Junk folder.

3.  Open the message that has the subject **Holly Spencer wants to share MarketingTeam**.
    
4. Select the **MarketingTeam** link in the email.

5. Select **Microsoft account**. Verify that you can access the site.

6. Close the browser tab. In your Inbox, open the second email invitation with the subject **Shared document**.

7. Select the **Document** link.

    > [!Note]You are redirected to the **Microsoft Word document**. Word Online opens the document.

8.  Verify that you can access the **Word document**, and then select **Edit in Browser**.
    
9.  Add some text to this document.

10. Close **Microsoft Edge**.

11. Sign out from LON-CL1 as +++Adatum\Holly+++.

**Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured a site collection for external user sharing, and you should have shared a site and a document with external users.

# Exercise 4: Configuring OneDrive for Business

## Task 1: Enable OneDrive for Business synchronization

1. On **LON-CL1**, sign in as **Adatum\Beth** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Select **Start**, then select **Word**.
3. Select **Blank document**.
4. In the **Word** window, select **Beth Burke** and then select **Sign in with a different account**.
5. On the **Sign in** page, in the **email address** box, enter +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, and then select **Next**.  
6. On the **Sign in** page, in the **Enter password** box, enter Beth's password, and then select **Sign in**.
7. In the **Stay signed in to all your apps** dialog box, select **OK**.
8. Close **Word**.
9. Open **Microsoft Edge**, and then connect to +++https://portal.office.com+++.
10. If prompted, sign in as +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++. 
11. In the Office 365 portal, select **OneDrive**.
12. If a **Securely store and share files** page appears, select **Your OneDrive is ready**.
13. In the **OneDrive** window, select **New**, and then select **Word document**.
14. In the **Word Online** window, enter text, wait until it is saved.
15. in the Edge browser, select **Not syncing**, and then select **Turn on sync**.
16. Select **Start** and then enter **OneDrive**.
17. Select the **OneDrive** app.
18. In the **Set up OneDrive** dialog box, select **Sign in**.
19. If prompted to sign in, enter +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, in the **user name** box, enter Beth's password in the **password** box, and then select **Sign In**.
20. On the **Your OneDrive folder** page, select **Next**.
21. On the **Get to know your OneDrive** page, select **Next**.
22. On the **Share files and folders** page, select **Next**.
23. On the **All your files, ready and on-demand** page, select **Next**.
24. On the **Get the mobile app** page, select **Later**.
25. On the **Your OneDrive is ready for you** page, select **Open my OneDrive folder**.
26. In the **File Explorer** window that opens, select **OneDrive - Adatum*.
27. Note that File Explorer displays the location where the synced files will be stored. Verify that the Word document has been synced to the local computer.

## Task 2: Create files to sync with OneDrive for Business

1.  On **LON-CL1**, ensure that the **OneDrive - Adatum** folder is open in **File Explorer**.
    
2.  In **File Explorer**, on the ribbon, select **Home**, select **New folder**, and then **create** a new folder named **Private**.
    
3.  On the ribbon, select **Home**, select **New folder**, and then create a second new folder named **Project A**.
    
4.  Double-click the **Private** folder, or select it and then select Enter. Right-click or access the context menu in this folder, point to **New**, and then select **Microsoft Word Document**. Name the document **Holidays**. 
    
5.  Notice that the document icon on the taskbar changes from two blue arrows to a small green check mark icon after the synchronization process is complete. The document has been automatically transferred to the cloud storage.
    
6.  In the **File Explorer** window, in the address bar, go to **OneDrive - Adatum** to move one level up.
    
7.  Double-click the **Project A** folder, or select it and then select Enter.

8.  Right-click this folder or access the context menu in this folder, point to **New**, and then select **Microsoft Word Document**. Name the document **Project targets**. 
    
9.  Verify that the document syncs.

10. To observe the files online, switch to the **Microsoft Edge** window, if necessary switch to the **Files - OneDrive** tab. Refresh the display. 
    
11. In the **Files** list, you should observe your two folders, **Private** and **Project A**.
    
12. Go to the **Private** folder and select the synced **Holidays.docx** document to open it in Word Online.
    
13. Add some text. The document has been automatically saved when **Saved** is displayed in the title bar. Close the document.
    
14. The content of the **Private** folder changes, and you can observe that you changed the document online. The **Modified** column depicts that the document changed a few seconds (or minutes) ago.
    
15.  Switch back to File Explorer. Go to the **Private** folder, and then open **Holidays**. You can observe that the changes you made in Word Online have been automatically synced back. The sync may take a few minutes. Notice that the time in Date modified column changes when the document has synced.

## Task 3: Share files with other users

1.  In **File Explorer** on **LON-CL1**, go to the root of OneDrive, right-click or access the context menu, select the **Project A** folder, and then select **View online**. **Microsoft Edge** opens.
    
2.  Open the **Project A** folder, right-click or access the context menu, **Project Targets.docx**, and then select **Share**.
    
3.  Notice that SharePoint Online automatically opens a dialog box named **Send link**.
    
4.  In the box at the top, enter and select **Holly Spencer**.

5.  Ensure that the **Anyone with the link can edit** text as observed, add a short message in the **Add a message (optional)** box, and then select **Send**.
    
6. Open a new InPrivate **Microsoft Edge** window, and then connect to +++https://portal.office.com+++.

7. +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, with Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++.

8. In the **Office 365 portal**, select **Outlook**.

9. Select the message with the subject **Beth Burke shared "Project Targets" with you**.

10. In the mail message area, select **Project targets**.

11. When the document opens, verify that you can edit it. Note that all modifications are stored online in the **OneDrive for Business cloud storage**. By default, **SharePoint Online** creates a new version when the document changes. The owner can observe this in the version history.

12. Close the InPrivate **Microsoft Edge** window.

13. In the **Microsoft Edge** window with **Beth Burke** signed in, refresh the window, select the Project Targets file, and then select the info (i) icon.  
    
14. In the details pane, select **Manage Access**.

15. In the Manage Access pane, select **Stop sharing** twice.

16. Close the **Microsoft Edge** window.

17. Sign out as **Adatum\Beth**.

**Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured OneDrive for Business for Adatum Corporation and verified user file sharing in OneDrive for Business.

# Exercise 5: Troubleshooting SharePoint Online and OneDrive for Business

## Task 1: Produce problems

1.  On **LON-CL1**, sign in as +++Adatum\Holly+++ with the password +++Pa55w.rd+++
    
2.  Select **Start**, enter **SharePoint**, right-click or access the context menu, select the **SharePoint Online Management Shell**, and then select **Run as administrator**. 
    
3.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, select **Yes**. 

4.  In the **Administrator: SharePoint Online Management Shell** window, enter **install-module -name MSOnline**.
    
5.  When prompted, enter **Y**.

6.  In the Administrator: SharePoint Online Management Shell window, enter +++C:\Labfiles\Mod06\Mod6_CreateProblem.ps1+++ and then select **Enter**.
    
7.  When prompted, +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, with Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++.

    > [!Note]You might be asked to sign in several times.

8. Wait until you get command prompt back. Also, please wait 10 minutes after the script is finished before proceeding with the next lab task.

   

## Task 2: Detect SharePoint Online access and OneDrive for Business synchronization problems

1.  On **LON-CL2**, sign in as +++Adatum\Beth+++ with the password +++Pa55w.rd+++.
    
2.  Open Microsoft Edge, and then go to +++https://Adatum@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*.sharepoint.com/sites/sales+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.
    
3.  Sign in as +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, with Beth's password. If prompted to stay signed in, select **No**.
    
4. Verify that Beth is not allowed to access the Sales Team site.

5. Close **Microsoft Edge**.

6. Open **Microsoft Edge**, and then access +++https://Adatum@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*.sharepoint.com/sites/sales+++, where
   ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

7. Sign in as +++Abbi@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, with Abbi's password. If prompted to stay signed in, select **No**.
   
8. Verify that Abbi can access the Sales Team site.

9. Select **SHARE**.

10. In the **Share 'Sales Team site'** dialog box, in the **Invite People** box, enter your Microsoft account, and then select **Share**.
    
11. Verify that you receive an error message stating that you cannot share the site.

12. Select **Cancel**.

13. In Microsoft Edge window, in Sales Team site, in the **Documents** section, select **Sync**.

14. In the **This site is trying to open Microsoft OneDrive** dialog box, select **Open**.

15. In the **Microsoft OneDrive** window, on the **Set up OneDrive** page, select **Sign in**.

16. Sign in with a user name of +++Abbi@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, and Abbi's password.

17. Select **Next**.

18. Verify that you receive an error stating that OneDrive cannot add your folder now. If you do not receive an error at this point, cancel the wizard, and wait for 5 minutes before starting with step 16 again.

## Task 3: Resolve SharePoint Online access and OneDrive for Business synchronization problems

1.  On **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then sign in to +++https://portal.office.com+++ with the
    user name +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, and Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++.

2.  In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, on the navigation pane, select **Admin centers**, and then select **SharePoint**.

3.  Select **Sites**, and then select **Active sites**.

4.  Select the check box next to the **Sales Team** site, select **More(...)**, and then select **Sharing**. 

5.  In **External sharing**, select **Anyone** and then select **Save**.

6.  If necessary, select the check box for **Sales** site. 

7.  On the menu, select **Permissions**, and then select **Manage admins**.

8.  On the **Manage admins** blade, in the **Add an admin** text box, enter **Beth** and then select **Beth Burke**.

9.  Select **Save**.

10.  Switch to the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab, and then select **All Admin centers**.
11.  Select **OneDrive**.

12.  In the **OneDrive admin center**, select **Sync**.

13.  Clear the **Allow syncing only on PCs joined to specific domains** check box.

14.  Clear the **Block syncing of specific file types** check box.

15.  Select **Save**.

16.  To verify that you have resolved the issues, go through the steps in the previous lab task, "Detect **SharePoint Online** access and **OneDrive for Business** synchronization problems." This time, you should not receive any error messages.

    > [!Note]It might take up to 15 minutes before the OneDrive settings take effect.

## Task 4: Prepare for the next module

-   When you have finished the lab, close all open windows, and keep the virtual machines running for the next module.

**Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have resolved SharePoint Online and OneDrive for Business issues.



©2020 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. A few examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
