# Module 1: Office 365 services

# Lab answer key: Setting up and configuring Office 365 services 

## Exercise 1: Setting up a Microsoft 365 lab environment

#### Task 1: Create an Office 365 E5 trial subscription

1. On **LON-CL1** computer, on the taskbar, select  **Microsoft Edge**.

2. In the address bar, input [**https://aka.ms/v2jy2f**](https://aka.ms/v2jy2f), and then select Enter.

3. On the **Office 365 E5** page, select the  **Free trial** link.

4. On the  **Thank for your choosing Office 365 E5** page, complete the following fields.  Use the following information:

  - Email address: **Use your new Microsoft account that you created for this course or your personal email address**. Make sure that you didn't previously use this address for an Office 365 trial. After you enter your email address, select **Next**, and then select **Set up account** to proceed to the next steps.
  - First name: **Holly**
  - Last name: **Spencer**
  - Business phone number: ***Use your mobile phone number, including the international code, for your country or region***.
  - Company name: **Adatum**
  - Organization size: **250-999 people**
  - Country/Region: Select your country or region. If not available from the list, select **United States**.

5. Select **Next**.

6. Confirm your identity by using your mobile phone. Select the **Text me** option, and then select the code for your country or region.

7. In the **Phone number** box, enter your correct, working mobile phone number. Ensure that you select the correct country or region code.

8. Ensure that the **Text me** option is selected, and then select **Send Verification Code** link.

9. When you receive the confirmation text on your mobile phone, enter the code provided in the  **Verification code** box. Select **Verify**.
10. On the **Create your business identity** page, create a unique domain for the company name to use in the course in the form of **Adatum*yyxxxxx***. You can use your two primary initials followed by a unique five-digit number. For example, **Adatum*AB12345***. This will be your ***unique Adatum number*** throughout the course. When you enter the domain name, select **Check availability**. If the name is not available, select another name and try again. **Note**: You can also refer to your lab info and use the Office 365 Blob name provided.

11. When you find an available domain name, select **Next**.

12. On the **Create your business identity** page, fill in following data:

  - Username:  **Holly** (@Adatum*yyxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com)

  - Password:  Create a password that meets the complexity requirements. Document Holly's password as you will use it through all labs.

  - Confirm password:  Enter the same password.

13. Select **Sign up**.
14. Wait until the Microsoft 365 tenant is provisioned, note your sign in data, and then select **Go to setup**.
15. On the **Install Office** page, select **Exit setup**. Close the prompt window.
16. If the Welcome window appears, select **Skip**.
17. Ensure that the Microsoft 365 admin center opens. If it does not open, refresh the page in the browser. If the **Get your work done with Office 365** window appears, close it.

#### Task 2: Add a custom domain and verify ownership

1. Ensure that you are signed in to the Microsoft 365 admin center with admin credentials for your Office 365 E5 trial tenant. These credentials are created in the previous task (Holly Spencer). If needed, select **Admin** icon to access admin center.

2. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select **Show all** on the navigation pane. Select **Settings**, and then select **Domains**.  On the **Domains** page, select **Add domain**.

3. On the Add a domain page, in the text box, enter your domain name in the form of ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com***. You can find your custom domain name in the lab info of the hosting provider provided as **UPN Name**. If you aren't able to locate this information, ask your instructor for help.

4. Select **Use this domain**.

5. On the **How do you want to verify your domain?** page, select **Add a text record to the domain's DNS records** and select **Continue**.

6. On the **Verify you own this domain** page, record the value record found in the **TXT value** row. This entry will be similar to MS=msXXXXXXXX. Record this value:

    MS=____________________________

7. Select Start, scroll down to **Windows Server Administrative Tools**, expand this menu, and then select **DNS**.

8. In the Connect to DNS Server window, select **The following computer**, enter **LON-DC1.adatum.com** and then select **OK**.

9. In the DNS Manager window, expand **LON-DC1** and select  **Forward Lookup Zones**.

10. Right-click **Forward Lookup Zones** or access the context menu and select **New Zone**.

11. On the **New Zone Wizard** page, select **Next**.

12. On the **Zone enter** page, verify that **Primary zone** is selected. Clear the **Store the zone in Active Directory** check box and select **Next**.

13. On the **Zone Name** page, enter **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, where ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** is your unique domain name provided by lab hosting provider,  and select **Next**.

14. On the **Zone File** page, select **Next**.

15. On the **Dynamic Update** page, ensure that **Do not allow dynamic updates** is selected, select **Next**, and then select **Finish**.

16. Expand  **Forward Lookup Zones**, select and then right-click  **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, or access the context menu, and then select  **Other New Records**.

17. Under  **Select a resource record type**, scroll down to  **Text (TXT)**, and then select  **Create Record**.

18. In the **New Resource Record** box, leave the **Record name** field blank.

19. In the **Text** field, enter **MS=ms*XXXXXXXX***, the value that you recorded in Step 6.

20. Select **OK** to create the record.

21. In the **Resource Record type** dialog box, select **Done**.

22. Right-click **Customdomainname.hostdomain.com**, or access the context menu and select **New Host (A or AAAA)**.

23. In the  **New Host** box, under **Name**, enter the name of the external name server as provided by the lab hosting provider. If this name is not provided, leave the **Name** field blank.

24. Under **IP address**, provide the IP address of the external name server as provided by the lab hosting provider.

25. Select **Add Host**, select **OK** and then close the **New Host** dialog box.
**Note**: The following steps might not be required by all lab hosting providers. Check with your instructor if you need to create records in steps 26, 27 and 28.

26. Double-click the **Start of Authority (SOA)** record or select it and then select Enter. Replace the **Primary Server** reference with the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the name server as provided by the lab hosting provider.

27. Select **OK**.

28. Double-click the **Name Server (NS)** record or select it and then select Enter. Select **Edit**. Replace the FQDN name with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the lab hosting provider. Select **Resolve**, and then select **OK** twice.

29. Close the DNS Manager window, and switch to the Microsoft 365 admin center in the browser window, on the **Verify domain** page, select **Verify**. Wait until the domain is verified and then proceed to the next task. If you get an error message, wait for a minute or two and then try again.

#### Task 3: Complete the custom domain setup

1. On the **How do you want to connect your domain?** page, select **Continue**.

2. On the **Add DNS records** page, verify that the **Exchange and Exchange Online Protection** option is selected, select **Advanced Options**, and then select **Skype for Business**. ***Note: Although you won't be using Skype for Business in this course because it's replaced with Teams, you need to create DNS records for Skype for Business as they are needed for Teams service.***
3. On the **Add DNS records** page, expand **MX Records**, **CNAME Records**, **TXT Records**, and **SRV records**. Review the DNS records that you should add to the domain.

4. Use the same procedure from the previous task to add MX, CNAME, SRV, and TXT records for your custom domain, by using DNS Manager console. Select your custom domain in DNS Manager, right-click it or access the context menu, and then create MX, CNAME, SRV or TXT records, based on values from the Microsoft 365 admin center. If you aren't sure how to do this, ask your instructor for help. You can copy records values from Microsoft 365 admin center directly to DNS Manager console.

5. When you finish adding records to DNS, switch to the Microsoft 365 admin center and select **Continue**. Ensure that you observe a **Domain setup is complete** message.

6. Select **Done**. Ensure that you find **(Default)** after your custom domain name and that status is **Healthy**. If your custom domain name is not configured as default, perform steps 7 and 8.

7. On the **Domains** page, select the custom domain name provided by your lab hosting provider.

8. On the domain page, select **Set as default**. When you observe the message, **The domain is successfully set as default**, select **Close**.

   ***Note: By configuring your custom domain name as the default domain, all users that you create in your Office 365 tenant will have a sign-in name and email address on your custom domain name. Only the first global admin account that you created during tenant provisioning will still use the Adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com domain name.***

#### Task 4: Verify the health of services

1. In the **navigation** menu, expand the **Health** menu, and then select **Service health** to display the **Service health** dashboard.
2. In the pane on the dashboard, review the status of the Microsoft 365 services. If a service is displaying a status other than  **Service is healthy**, then select the service or select  **advisory**. 
3. Review any service interruption records and additional information on the **Incidents** page.

>  **Note:** During Microsoft testing, there were instances when Office 365 didn't create the trial tenant properly. As a result, the tenant didn't have all the services available to it. If this happens to you, create a new trial tenant by using a different business email address (Microsoft account).

#### Task 5: Configure security defaults for Azure AD

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in navigation pane, select **Azure Active Directory**. New tab will open.

2. On the My Dashborad page, open navigation menu in the top left corner, select **Azure Active Directory**, then open navigation menu again and select **Properties**.

3. Scroll down, and select **Manage security defaults** link.

4. In the Enable Security defaults window, select **No**, select **Other**, enter "lab environment" in the textbox and select **Save**.

5. Close Adatum - Azure Active Directory tab in browser.

   >  **Note:** In the production environment, you should not disable security defaults for Azure AD. We are doing this only for lab purposes, so that some scripts in later labs can run without issues.

   

**Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully provisioned the Office 365 tenant account for Adatum Corporation.

## Exercise 2: Configuring Office 365 services

#### Task 1: Review services and add-ins

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the **navigation** menu, select **Show all** (if needed), expand  **Settings**, select **Org settings**, and verify that the **Services** tab is selected.

2. Select **Cortana**. Here you can enable or disable Cortana for all users in your organization. Close the **Cortana** pane.

3. Select **Mail**, and then select  **Anti-malware policies**. The Exchange admin center opens in a new tab. Select your time zone and select **Save**. Review the available settings and then close this tab.

4. Review the other available options, and then close the **Mail** pane.

5. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the **Org settings** page, select  **User owned apps and services**.

6. Verify that both options are selected. If they aren't, select both options.

7. Select **Save changes** if you made any changes, and then close the pane.

#### Task 2: Verify security and privacy settings

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the  **Org settings** page, select the **Security &amp; privacy** tab.

2. Select  **Password expiration policy**.

3. On the  **Password expiration policy** pane, select the option **Set user passwords to expire after a number of days**. In the **Days before passwords expire** box, enter **42**, and then select  **Save changes**.

4. Close the pane.

5. Select  **Customer lockbox**.

6. Review the settings, and then close the pane.

#### Task 3: Determine current licenses

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the **navigation** pane, expand  **Billing**, and then select **Licenses**.

2. Review the available licenses for the Office 365 E5 subscription.

3. Select  **Your products**, and then review the Office 365 E5 trial subscription.

#### Task 4: Update the organization profile

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the **navigation** pane, expand  **Settings**, select **Org settings**, and then select the **Organization profile** tab.

2. Review the settings. Select  **Release preferences**.

3. Review the settings, and then close the pane.

4. Select **Custom themes**.

5. Review the settings, and then close the pane.

6. Review the other available settings.

7. Close all windows on **LON-CL1**, and then sign out.

#### Task 5: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running for the next module.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully verified the configuration of your Office 365 tenant.


©2020 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.