# Module 5: Administering and troubleshooting Teams

# Lab: Administering Teams 

### Scenario

 As part of the Microsoft 365 implementation, Adatum wants to use Microsoft Teams to provide IM and online conferencing. You must ensure that you can configure the Teams service settings and user settings to meet company requirements.

### Objectives

 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure Teams organization settings.
- Configure Teams user settings.
- Create and manage teams.
- Troubleshoot Teams client issues.

> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps correspondingly, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup

Estimated time: 60 minutes

VMs: **LON-DC1**, **LON-DS1**, **LON-CL1**, and **LON-CL2** 
Username: **Adatum\\Administrator** for **LON-DC1** and **LON-DS1**, **Adatum\\Holly** for **LON-CL1**, and **Adatum\\Ada** for **LON-CL2** 
Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, if necessary, you must complete the following steps:

1. On **LON-DC1** and **LON-DS1**, sign in by using the following credentials:

   - User name: **Administrator**
   - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
   - Domain: **Adatum**

2. On **LON-CL1**, sign in by using the following credentials:

   - User name: **Holly**
   - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
   - Domain: **Adatum**

3. On **LON-CL2**, sign in by using the following credentials:

   - User name: **Ada**
   - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
   - Domain: **Adatum**

In all tasks:

- Where you observe references to **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, replace ***yyxxxxx*** with your unique Adatum number that you choose in Lab 1 - Exercise 1, Task 1. 
- Where you observe references to ***Customdomainname.hostdomain.com*** replace this string with your custom domain name provided by your lab hosting provider.

**Note**: When asked to sign in during this lab, if you are prompted by the **Help us protect your account** dialog box, select **Skip for now (14 days until this is required)**. 

## Exercise 1: Configuring Teams organization settings 

### Scenario

Adatum must ensure that internal users can communicate with a few external users. However, the company also wants the option to block communication with a few specified domains. In addition, Adatum wants to customize the default meeting page to provide company-specific information for Teams. They also want to create a custom meeting policy for Teams. To accomplish this, you must configure the required settings.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Download and install the Teams module for Windows PowerShell.
2. Connect to Teams by using Windows PowerShell.
3. Configure settings for Teams.
4. Configure the meeting invitation settings for Teams.
5. Install Teams and validate the meeting invitation settings for Teams.


### Task 1: Install the Teams module for Windows PowerShell 

1. On **LON-CL1**, open **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.

2. At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** command prompt, run the following command: `Install-Module MicrosoftTeams`


### Task 2: Connect to Teams by using Windows PowerShell

1. On **LON-CL1**, connect to Microsoft Teams by running the following commands in Windows PowerShell. Use Holly's credentials to connect:

```
$msolcred = Get-Credential
$TeamsSession = New-CSOnlineSession -Credential $msolcred
Import-PSSession $TeamsSession
```

### Task 3: Configure settings for Teams

1. On **LON-CL1**, use Windows PowerShell to configure the following settings:
   - Enable the privacy mode by using the **Set-CSPrivacyConfiguration** cmdlet with the ***-EnablePrivacyMode*** parameter.
   - Disable push notifications for Apple devices by using the **Set-CSPushNotificationConfiguration** cmdlet with the ***-EnableApplePushNotification*** parameter.
   - Verify the privacy and push notification settings by running the **Get-CSPrivacyConfiguration** and **Get-CSPushNotificationConfiguration** cmdlets.
   - Allow users to communicate with public Teams users by using the **Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration** cmdlet with the ***-AllowPublicUsers*** parameter.
   - Allow users to communicate with federated partners by using the **Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration** cmdlet with the ***-AllowFederatedUsers*** parameter.

2. Use the following commands to enable communication with all federated partners except for **litware.com**:

```
$AllDomains = New-CsEdgeAllowAllKnownDomains
$BlockedDomain = New-CsEdgeDomainPattern -Domain "litware.com"
Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowedDomains $AllDomains -BlockedDomains $BlockedDomain
```

3. Verify the change with Windows PowerShell by running the following command:

```
Get-CsTenantFederationConfiguration
```

4. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to [Office.com portal](https://portal.office.com).
5. Sign in as **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, using Holly's password.
6. In Microsoft Teams admin center, verify the setting for external access and the litware.com domain.
7. Configure Teams and Skype coexistence to work in Islands mode.
8. Create a new meeting policy, and name it **Adatum Teams meeting policy**.
9. Use the following settings to configure the policy:
   - Allow transcription
   - Reduce sharing to single application
   - Allow external participants to give or request control. 
10. Save the policy.

### Task 4: Configure the meeting invitation settings for Teams 

- On **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Teams admin center, configure the following meeting invitation settings:
   - Help URL: `http://helpteams.Adatum.com`
   - Footer text: **Sample legal disclaimer for Teams**

### Task 5: Install Teams and validate the meeting invitation settings for Teams

1. On **LON-CL1**, install the Teams client app from [Download Microsoft Teams](https://teams.microsoft.com/downloads). 
2. Open the Teams client and sign in as **Holly@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**.
3. Create a team named **Adatum General**, and then select to automatically add all users from the organization. Use the following properties to create your team:

    - Org-wide
    - Team name: **Adatum General**
4. Select the **HS** icon and in **Settings**, check that **Register Teams as the chat app for Office** is enabled.
5. On **LON-CL1**, open **Outlook 2019**. 
6. To configure integration, sign out of Windows, and then sign back in as **Adatum\Holly**.
7. Start both Outlook and Teams. After restarting Outlook, enable the **Microsoft Teams Meeting Add-in for Microsoft Office 2019** plug-in.
8. In Outlook, create a new Teams meeting request, and then after verifying the following meeting request settings, send it to Ada: 
   - The meeting contains a link to **Join Microsoft Teams Meeting**
   - The custom footer text displays
   - The help link references the URL `http://helpteams.Adatum.com`.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Teams service settings.

## Exercise 2: Configuring Teams user settings

### Scenario

You must configure different Teams user settings based on the user's department. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Modify Teams user settings.
2. Configure setting for a team.
3. Verify Teams communications.

### Task 1: Modify Teams user settings

1. On **LON-CL1**, in the Microsoft 365 admin center, edit the **Ada Russell** user account so that Teams is enabled. 

2. Use Microsoft Teams admin center to assign the **Adatum Teams meeting policy**  for the **Meeting policy** for the **Ada Russell** account.


### Task 2: Configure settings for a team

1. In the Microsoft Teams admin center, select **Teams** and **Manage teams**. 
2. Navigate to the **Adatum General** team that you created earlier, and add a channel called **Adatum Project A** to that team.
3. Select **Edit** in the upper right of the display to edit the Team.
4. Prevent users of this team from deleting sent messages.

### Task 3: Verify Teams communications

> **Note:** If you are prompted to reconfigure a firewall rule, do so. Authenticate with the **User Account Control** prompt as **Adatum\\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

1. On **LON-CL2**, ensure that you are signed in as **Ada**.

2. Download the Teams client app from [Download Microsoft Teams](https://teams.microsoft.com/downloads). 

3. Sign in as **Ada@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** to the Teams app. 

4. Ensure you clear the **Allow my organization to manage my device** option, and select **No, sign in to this app only** when prompted.

5. Send a chat message to Holly Spencer HOLLY by using Teams. 

6. Verify on **LON-CL1** that Holly received a message.

7. Review sharing options that Holly and Ada have in their Teams applications and ensure that Ada can only share a window because of policy applied to her account.

8. Add OneNote notebook to the **Adatum Project A** channel.

9. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to [office.com portal](https://portal.office.com).

10. Sign in as **Ada@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com** by using Ada's password.

11. Open the Outlook app

12. In **Calendar**, select the meeting scheduled for tomorrow and accept the invitation request.

13. Select the meeting again, and then select **Holly Spencer**.

14. In the details pane, select the link for Holly's instant message address (the speech bubble symbol). 

15. Send a short instant message to Holly

16. On **LON-CL1**, respond to the message.

17. On **LON-CL2**, verify that the IM from Holly is received.

18. In **Calendar**, join the meeting.

19. When prompted by Microsoft Edge, switch to Teams and using Phone audio, join the meeting. 

20. On **LON-CL1**, join the meeting. 

21. Verify that Ada is connected to the meeting and share your desktop.

22. On **LON-CL2**, verify that Holly's desktop is visible in the meeting window. 

23. Disconnect from the meeting and sign out of Windows.

24. On **LON-CL1**, disconnect from the meeting, and then sign out of Windows.

    

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Teams user settings and validated Teams functionality.

## Exercise 3: Creating and managing teams

### Scenario

You must create a number of teams to support your users' needs. You decide to complete this task by using Windows PowerShell.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a new team.
2. Configure the team.
3. Verify the team's settings.

### Task 1: Create a new team

1. On **LON-CL1**, sign in as **Adatum\Holly**.
2. Open **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.
3. Connect to Teams by running the following commands in Windows PowerShell, using Holly's credentials to connect:

```
$msolcred = Get-Credential
$TeamsSession = New-CSOnlineSession -Credential $msolcred
Import-PSSession $TeamsSession
```

4. Run the following commands to create the required team, selecting enter after each line:

> **Note**: After the first command, make note of the **GroupId** value and substitute it in the following commands in place of the *GroupID* placeholder.

```
New-Team -DisplayName "Adatum Reads" -Description "Team to post technical articles and blogs" -Visibility Public
New-TeamChannel -GroupId GroupId -DisplayName "Articles"
New-TeamChannel -GroupId GroupId -DisplayName "Blogs"
```
5. On **LON-CL1**, open Teams and verify the presence of the new team and its two channels. Verify that team's channels' visibility is set to **Org**.

   

### Task 2: Configure the team

1. In Windows PowerShell, substitute the **GroupId** value you captured earlier in the following commands in place of the *GroupID* placeholder. To change visibility and description, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

```
Set-Team -GroupId GroupId -DisplayName "Private Adatum Reads" -Visibility Private
```

2. To add a member, enter the following command, replacing your custom domain name details, and then select Enter:

```
Add-TeamUser -GroupId GroupId -User Ada@Customdomainname.hostdomain.com
```



### Task 3: Verify the team's settings

- In Teams, verify the configuration changes you just made. Ensure that the team's name is now **Private Adatum Reads**, that visibility is now **Team**, and that **Ada Russell** is a member of the team.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created and configured teams using Windows PowerShell.


## Exercise 4: Troubleshooting Teams client issues

### Scenario

Users have been experiencing problems with call quality and client connectivity to Teams. You decide to investigate by enabling logs and then reviewing call quality.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Review available logs.
2. Verify call quality.
3. Prepare for the next module.

### Task 1: Review available logs

1. On **LON-CL1**, in Teams, select the following keys in combination: **CTRL** + **ALT** + **SHIFT** + **1**.

2. Delete all files in the **Downloads** folder. 

3. In Teams, select the following keys in combination: **CTRL** + **ALT** + **SHIFT** + **1**.

4. In **Downloads**, review a few of the available files. 

5. To review Desktop logs, in the system tray on the taskbar, right-click the **Teams** icon or access its context menu, and then select **Get logs**. 

6. Review the information, and then close the file.

7. To enable Media logging, in the system tray on the taskbar, right-click the **Teams** icon or access its context menu, and then select **Settings**.

8. In **Settings**, turn on the **Enable logging for meeting diagnostics (requires restarting Teams)** setting, and then restart Teams.

9. Create a **Meet now** meeting and add Ada Russell as a participant. 

10. Switch to **LON-CL2**, and join the new meeting.

11. After a moment, leave the meeting.

12. Switch to **LON-CL1**, and leave the meeting.

13. Open **File Explorer**, and navigate to **%appdata%\Microsoft\Teams\media-stack**\. 

14. Review the blog files, and notice the most recent one relates to the recent meeting. 

15. Close File Explorer.

### Task 2: Verify call quality

1. On **LON-CL1**, switch to **Microsoft Teams admin center**. 

2. In **Users**, select **Ada Russell**.

3. In the upper part of the display, review the **7-DAY QUALITY** indicator. 

4. On the **Call history** tab, select the listed call, and review the **Audio quality** column. 

5. Select the Session start time adjacent to **Ada Russell**.

6. In the call details pane, select the **Advanced** tab, and then review the available information. 

7. Select the **Debug** tab, and then review the available information. 

8. Export the report, and open and review the file in Microsoft Excel if you wish. 

9. Close all open windows and sign out from both **LON-CL1** and **LON-CL2**.

### Task 3: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, keep the VMs running for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully reviewed the available logs and verified call quality.
>
## Lab review

- How will you change the Windows PowerShell steps that you ran in the lab if you want to block all communication with external domains except litware.com?

©2020 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. A few examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.