# Module 7: Planning and deploying Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise
## Lab answer key: Managing Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise installations


# Exercise 1: Preparing Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise installations

## Task 1: Download the Office Deployment Tool

1. On  **LON-DS1**, on the taskbar, select  **File Explorer**.

2. In  **File Explorer**, expand  **This PC**, and then select the  **Local Disk (C:)** in the navigation pane.

3. In  **File Explorer**, select the  **Home** tab, and then select **New Folder**.

4. Enter **Office**, and then select Enter.

5. In  **File Explorer**, right-click  **Office** or access the context menu, select  **Give access to**, and then select  **Specific people**.

6. In the  **Network access** dialog box, select the drop-down list box, select **Everyone** from the list, select **Add**, and then select  **Share**.

7. In the  **Network access** dialog box, select **Done**.

8. From the taskbar, open the  **Internet Explorer** browser.

9. In the address bar, enter  +++https://aka.ms/m025ot+++, and then select Enter.

10. On the  **Office Deployment Tool** page, expand **Details**,  **System Requirements**, and  **Install Instructions**.

11. Study and familiarize yourself with each section. You can mark this page as a favorite to refer to later.

12. Select  **Download** and notice the information bar in the browser.

13. At the bottom of the Microsoft Edge window, click **Save**. After file is downloaded, click **Run**.

14. Accept the license agreement and select  **Continue**.

16. Browse to the  **Office** folder on **Local Disk (C:)**.

17. Select  **OK**. You should observe that the files were extracted successfully. Select  **OK**.

18. Navigate to the  **Office** folder with **File Explorer**. You should find three files named  **configuration-Officexxx** and one named **setup**.



## Task 2: Modify a Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise installation

1. In this step, you will back up the  **configuration-Office365-x86.xml** file and then open it so that you can edit it in the next step. To do this, on LON-DS1, perform the following steps:  
In  **File Explorer**, in Office folder, right-click the  **configuration-Office365-x86.xml** or access the context menu, and then select **Copy**. Right-click in an empty area or access the context menu, and then select  **Paste**. 

2. Select and right-click the  **configuration-Office365-x86.xml** file or access the context menu, select **Open with**, and then select  **Notepad**.

3. In  **Notepad**, edit the first  "**&lt;Add**" line after "**&lt;Configuration&gt;**" to display:

    ```xml
    <Add SourcePath="\\LON-DS1\Office\" OfficeClientEdition="32" Channel="Monthly">
    ```

4. In  **Notepad**, remove all the remaining **comment codes** in the lines that start with:  "**&lt;!--**" and end with "**--&gt;**" so each line of code begins with a "**&lt;**" (less-than symbol).

    > [!Note] Leave the comment codes on the instructions paragraph at the beginning of the file (before &lt;Configuration&gt;), or delete the paragraph entirely.  

5. Comment out Microsoft Visio with the  "**&lt;!--**" and "**--&gt;**" codes to make the download quicker,  
by replacing this code: 

    ```xml
      </Product>
      <Product ID="VisioProRetail">
        <Language ID="en-us" />
      <Product>
    ```
 
    with this code:
 
    ```xml
      </Product>
    <!--
      <Product ID="VisioProRetail">
        <Language ID="en-us" />
      </Product>
    -->
    ```

6. The entire file beginning with "&lt;Configuration&gt;"  
should be like this:

    ```xml
    <Configuration>
 
      <Add SourcePath= "\\LON-DS1\Office\" OfficeClientEdition="32" Channel="Monthly">
        <Product ID="O365ProPlusRetail">
          <Language ID="en-us" />
        </Product>
    <!-- 
        <Product ID="VisioProRetail">
          <Language ID="en-us" />
        </Product>
    -->
      </Add>
 
      <Updates Enabled="TRUE" Channel="Monthly" />
 
      <Display Level="None" AcceptEULA="TRUE" />
 
      <Property Name="AUTOACTIVATE" Value="1" />
 
    </Configuration>
    ```

7. Save the file as  **AdatumConfiguration.xml**, and then close  **Notepad**.

8. Switch to  **File Explorer** (you should still be in the **Office** folder), select **Shift**, right-click any white space or access the content menu, and then select **Open PowerShell window here**. 

9. At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```
    .\Setup.exe /?
    ```

10. Note the  **Office Deployment Tool** command-line options.

11. At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```
    .\setup.exe /download \\LON-DS1\Office\AdatumConfiguration.xml
    ```

12. In the  **User Account Control** window, if it appears, select **Yes**.

13. The download will take several minutes to complete.

14. Switch to  **File Explorer**, and verify that the download has started in the  **Office** folder. The existence of the **Office** folder verifies this. You can continue with the next task and leave the download in the background.


>  **Result**: You will have downloaded a copy of the Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise install for managed deployment to a shared folder. You will also have downloaded and installed the Office Deployment Tool on the same machine.



# Exercise 2: Managing user-driven Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise installations

## Task 1: Managing user rights to install Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise

1. On  **LON-CL1**, switch to Microsoft Edge, browse to  +++https://portal.office.com+++, and then sign in as  +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++.

2. On the  **Office 365** home page, select **Admin**.

3. In the  **Microsoft 365 admin center**, navigate to  **Users** and then select **Active Users**.

4. Select  **Abbi Skinner**, and then select **Licenses and Apps**, and then expand **Apps**.

5. Clear the checkmark from the  **Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise**, select  **Save changes**, and then close the pane.

6. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, within  **Active users**, select  **Catherine Richard**.

7. Select **Licenses and apps**.

8. Under  **Select location**, select  **United Kingdom**, and then ensure that  **Office 365  E5**, is enabled. Select  **Save changes**, and then close the pane.

9. Select  **Beth Burke**, and then select **Licenses and apps**, and then expand **Apps**.

10. Verify that Beth has permission to use all features.

11. Select  **Save changes**, and then close the pane.

12. In the  **Microsoft 365 admin center**, expand **Settings**, select **Org settings**  and then select  **Services ** tab.

13. Select  **Office installation options**.

14. In the  **Apps for Windows and mobile devices** section,  deselect **Office (includes Skype for Business)** but leave **Skype for Business (Standalone)** selected.

15. Select  **Save**, and then  close the pane.

16. On the  **Admin** page, select the **Profile** icon for **Holly Spencer**, and then select **Sign Out**.

17. On the  **Sign in** page, at +++https://portal.office.com+++, sign in as  +++Abbi@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, by using Abbi's password. If prompted to stay signed in, select **No**.

18. If Get your work done with Office 365 page appears, close it. On the  **Default Landing** page, select **Install Office** and then select **Install software**.

19. On the My account page, select **View apps & devices** and ensure that you find only the option for Skype for Business.

    >[!Note]Because this user is not licensed for Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise, Office is not available for download. Skype for Business is available as a standalone product.


20. Close and reopen Microsoft Edge and connect to  +++https://portal.office.com+++.

21. On the  **Sign in** page, at +++https://portal.office.com+++, sign in as +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, by using Beth's password. If prompted to stay signed in, select **No**.

22. If Get your work done with Office 365 page appears, close it. On the  **Default Landing** page, select **Install Office** and then select **Install software**.

    >[!Note]This user has a license, but Office is not available for download because Holly disabled Office download.


23. On the My account page, select **View apps & devices** and ensure that you find only the option for **Skype for Business**, and you also see the message that admin has turned off office installs.

24. Close and re-open  **Microsoft Edge**.

25. In the address bar, enter  +++https://portal.office.com+++, and then select Enter.

26. Sign in as  +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

27. On the  **Office 365** home page, select **Admin**.

28. In the  **Microsoft 365 admin center**, expand **Settings**, select **Org settings**  and then select  **Services ** tab.

29. Select  **Office installation options**.

30. In the  **Apps for Windows and mobile devices** section, select all options.

31. Select  **Save**.

32. In  **Microsoft Edge**, on the  **User Software** page, select the **Profile** icon for **Holly Spencer**, and then select  **Sign out**.

    >[!Note]Instead of signing out your admin user every time, you can select the Microsoft Edge browser **More** icon (**...**) in your browser and open a **New InPrivate** window. This will allow you to have two sessions at a time open.


33. Switch to  **LON-CL2**. Verify that you are signed in as  **Beth**.

34. Open  **Microsoft Edge**.

35. If Office sign in page does not open, enter  +++https://portal.office.com+++, and then select Enter.

36. On the  **Sign in** page, at +++https://portal.office.com+++, sign in as +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, by using Beth's password. If prompted to stay signed in, select **No**..

37. In the  **Password** box, enter Beth's password, and then select  **Sign in**.

38. On the  **Office 365** home page, select the **Install Office** icon, and then select **Other install options**.

39. Software page will open. Select **View apps & devices**. Review available options.

    >[!Note]This user has a license, and Office  is now available for download.


40. Verify that  **Office** and **Skype for Business** desktop software are available to install.

41. ***Do not install***, but notice that this user can now install the 32-bit or 64-bit version of Office and select which language they want to install. 

42. Note that  **Phone and tablet** apps are available on the page.

43. Leave this page open, and continue to the next lab to perform the user-driven installation.



## Task 2: Installing Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise from the Office 365 portal

1. On  **LON-CL2**, in  **Microsoft Edge**, on the  **Apps & devices** page, in the **Language** section, select the language to install from the drop-down menu.

2. Select **32-bit** version.

3. Select  **Install Office**.

4. In the  **Microsoft Edge** notification bar, select **Open file**.

5. If the  **User Account Control** dialog box appears, enter +++Adatum\\Holly+++ in the username box; in the **Password** box, enter +++Pa55w.rd+++, and then select  **Yes**.

6. On the taskbar, select the  **Office** icon, and note the status of the download.

    >[!Note]It will take several minutes to complete,you should wait until applications appear in Start menu.


7. Select  **Close** when the wizard finishes.

8. Select  **Start**, and then select  **Word**. On the  **Accept the license agreement** window, if it appears, select **Accept**. On the Your privacy option page, if it appears, click **Close**.

9. On the Word landing page, click on Beth Burke account icon and select **Sign in with a different account**.

10. Sign in as +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, by using Beth's password., using Beth's password.

11. On the **Stay signed in to all your apps** window, select **OK** and then select **Done**.

12. Once signed in, your subscription license is activated by using your Office 365 account.

13. Select  **Blank document**.

14. Enter some text. 

15. Select  **File**, and then select  **Save**.

16. Select  **OneDrive - Adatum**.

17. Save the file with the name **Meeting Agenda**.

18. Select  **Save**. You might observe a  **AutoSave in On** message.

19. Close  **Word**.

20. Switch back to  **Beth Burke**'s Office 365 session in Microsoft Edge.

21. On this page select the  **Install Office** icon, and then select **Other install options**.

22. On the  **My account** page, select **View apps & devices** and then expand **DEVICES**.

23. Note that you can observe the installation you just made on **LON-CL2**.


## Task 3: Managing Office licenses

1. On  **LON-CL2**, sign out of Beth's account on the  **Office 365** page.

2. Sign back in as Holly Spencer with the username  +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

3. In the  **Password** box, enter Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++, and then select  **Sign in**.

4. On the  **Office 365** home page, select **Admin**.

5. In the  **Microsoft 365 admin center**, in the middle pane, select  **Active Users**, and then select  **Beth Burke**.

6. In the Details pane, select  **Licenses and apps**. 

7. Expand **Apps**, deselect the  **Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise** option to remove the license from Beth's account, select **Save changes**, and then close the pane.

8. In  **Microsoft Edge**, select the  **Profile photo** icon for **Holly Spencer**, and then select  **Sign out**.

9. On the  **Sign in** page, enter +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name.

10. In the  **Password** box, enter Beth's password, and then select  **Sign in**.

11. On the page select the  **Install Office** icon, and then select **Other install options**. Select **View apps & devices**.

12. Note that the Office installation is no longer listed, as this user no longer has an active license (although software is available).

    >[!Note]The Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise applications will still be available to Beth on any machine on which she already installed them, but within 30 days, they will enter low-functionality mode. This means she will only be able to study and print documents.


## Task 4: Reactivating Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise

1. Sign out of the **Office 365** page, and then sign back in as +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

2. In the  **Password** box, enter Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++, and then select  **Sign in**.

3. On the  **Office 365** home page, select the **Admin** tile.

4. In the  **Microsoft 365 admin center**, select  **Active Users**, and then select  **Beth Burke**.

5. In the Details pane, select  **Licenses and apps**.

6. Expand **Apps**, select the  **Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise** option to restore the license from Beth's account, select **Save changes**, and then close the pane.

7. Close  **Microsoft Edge**.


>  **Result**: When completed, you should be able to activate Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise for self-service installations. You should also be able to set licensing options correctly for end users so that deployment and installation is possible.



# Exercise 3: Managing centralized Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise installations

## Task 1: Configure a GPO to distribute the custom installation

1. Switch to  **LON-DC1** and connect as +++Adatum\\Administrator+++ by using +++Pa55w.rd+++ as the password.

2. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, select  **Tools**, and then select  **Active Directory Users and Computers**.

3. In the console tree, right-select  **Adatum.com** or access the context menu, point to  **New**, and then select  **Organizational Unit**.

4. Enter  **Adatum\_Computers**, and then select  **OK**.

5. In the console tree, within  **Adatum.com**, select  **Computers**.

6. Right-click  **LON-CL3** or access the context menu, select **Move**, select  **Adatum\_Computers**, and then select **OK**.

7. In  **Server Manager**, select  **Tools**, and then select  **Group Policy Management**.

8. In the  **Group Policy Management** window, expand **Forest: Adatum.com**, expand  **Domains**, expand  **Adatum.com**, and then select **Adatum\_Computers**.

9. Right-click  **Adatum\_Computers** or access the context menu, and then select **Create a GPO in this domain, and Link it here**.

10. In the  **New GPO** dialog box, in the **Name** box, enter +++DeployO365+++, and then select  **OK**.

11. In  **Group Policy Management**, select  **Adatum\_Computers**, and in the Details pane, right-click  **DeployO365** or access the context menu, and then select **Edit**. 

12. In  **Group Policy Management Editor**, expand  **Computer Configuration**,  **Policies**,  **Windows Settings**, and then select  **Scripts (Startup/Shutdown)**.

13. Double-click  **Startup** or select it and then select Enter, and then select  **Show Files**.

14. In  **File Explorer**, select  **Home**, select  **New item**, select  **Text Document**, and then select Enter to accept the default name.

15. Double-click  **New Text Document.txt** or select it and then select Enter.

16. In  **Notepad**, add the following line:

    ```
    \\LON-DS1\Office\setup.exe /configure \\LON-DS1\Office\AdatumConfiguration.xml
    ```

17. Save the file as  +++DeployO365.cmd+++. Ensure that in  **Save as type**, you select  **All Files** and that the file extension is **.CMD**.

18. Select  **Save**.

19. Close  **Notepad**.

20. Delete  **New Text Document**.

21. Switch back to the  **Group Policy Management Editor**,  **Startup Properties** dialog box.

22. Select  **Add**.

23. In the  **Add a Script** dialog box, select **Browse**.

24. In the  **Browse** dialog box, select **DeployO365.cmd**, and then select  **Open**.

25. In the  **Add a Script** dialog box, select **OK**.

26. In the  **Startup Properties** dialog box, select **OK**.

27. Close  **Group Policy Management Editor**.

28. Sign out of  **LON-DC1**.

29. Note that you could also deploy this script by using Microsoft Endpoint Manager, Configuration Manager, or other electronic software distribution.



## Task 2: Verify the installation

1. Switch to  **LON-CL3**, and if necessary, sign in as  +++Adatum\\Beth+++, by using,  +++Pa55w.rd+++ as the password.

2. Right-click the  **Start** button or access the context menu, and then select **Windows PowerShell**.

3. Enter  +++gpupdate /force+++, and then select Enter.

4. Wait for the **Group Policy** to update for both the computer and user and then close the **Windows PowerShell** window.

5. Restart the **LON-CL3** computer.

    >[!Note]If any updates have downloaded, select **Update and restart**, and then restart.


6. Wait five minutes after  **LON-CL3** has restarted before continuing. This is to allow the Group Policy settings to take effect on **LON-CL3**.

7. Sign in as  +++ADATUM\\Beth+++ by using +++Pa55w.rd+++ as the password. You might have to wait for Office to finish installing.

8. Select  **Start**, and note that Office apps are installed. You might have to wait up to 15 minutes before you notice any available Office applications.

9. Select  **Word**. If you do not find it on the  **Start** menu, enter **Word** to bring up the icon.

10. On the  **Sign in to set up Office** page, select **Sign in** box, and then sign is as +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name.

11. On the **Stay signed in to all your apps** window, select **OK** and then select **Done**.

12. In the  **Your privacy option** window, if it appears, select **Close**.

13. In the templates list, select  **Blank document**.

14. Enter some text.

15. Select  **File**, and then select  **Save**.

16. Select  **This PC**.

17. In  **File name**, enter  **Meeting Report**, and then select  **Save**.

18. Right-click the taskbar or access the content menu, and then select  **Task Manager**.

19. In  **Task Manager**, select  **More details**.

20. On the  **Processes** tab, under **Background processes**, notice that  **Microsoft Office Click-to-Run** appears.

21. Select the  **Details** tab, and notice **officeclicktorun.exe** in the task list.

22. Select the  **Services** tab, and notice that the **ClickToRunSvc** service is running.

    >[!Note]Check **Task Manager** for your deployment. These items will all be present in a successful install.


23. Close  **Task Manager**.

24. Close  **Word**.

25. Sign out of  **LON-CL3**.

26. Switch to  **LON-CL2** and sign out of **LON-CL2**.


>  **Result**: You will have enabled centralized managed deployment of Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise and implemented a standardized Microsoft Office configuration by using one version of Office.


# Exercise 4: Troubleshooting Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise deployments

## Task 1: Produce a problem

1. On  **LON-CL1**, ensure that you are still signed in as  **Adatum\\Holly**.

2. Select  **Start**, enter  **PowerShell**, right-click  **Windows PowerShell**, or access the context menu, and then select **Run as administrator**. In the User Account Control window, select **Yes**.

3. In the Administrator: Windows PowerShell window, enter  +++C:\\Labfiles\\Mod07\\Mod7\_CreateProblem.ps1+++ file, and then select **Enter**.

4. When prompted, sign in as +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, with Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++.

5. Please wait 10 minutes after the script is finished before proceeding with the next lab task.


## Task 2: Identify a problem

1. On  **LON-CL2**, sign in as  +++Adatum\\Beth+++ by using +++Pa55w.rd+++ as the password.

2. Select  **Start**, and verify you don't see Office apps.

3. Open  **Microsoft Edge**.

5. In the address bar, enter  +++https://portal.office.com+++, and then select Enter.

6. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Name** box, enter +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name.

7. In the  **Password** box, enter Beth's password, and then select  **Sign in**.

8. On the  **Office 365** home page, select **Install Office** icon, and then select **Install software**. Then select **View apps&devices**.

9. On the  **Apps & devices** page, notice that Beth only can install Skype for Business.

9. Sign out of  **LON-CL2**. 


## Task 3: Troubleshoot a problem

1. Switch to  **LON-CL1**.

2. Open  **Microsoft Edge**.

3. In the address bar, enter  +++https://portal.office.com+++, and then select Enter.

4. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Name** box, enter +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

5. In the  **Password** box, enter Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++, and then select  **Sign in**.

6. On the  **Office 365** home page, select **Admin**.

7. In the  **Microsoft 365 admin center**, select  **Users**, select  **Active Users** and then select **Beth Burke**.

8. In the Details pane, select  **Licenses and apps**.

9. Expand **Apps** and notice that the license for Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise is set to  **Off**.

10. Switch the license for **Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise** to  **On**.

11. Select  **Save changes**, and then close the pane.

12. Switch to  **LON-CL2**.

13. On  **LON-CL2**, sign in as  +++Adatum\\Beth+++ by using +++Pa55w.rd+++ as the password.

14. Open  **Microsoft Edge**.

15. In the address bar, enter  +++https://portal.office.com+++, and then select Enter.

16. If needed, on the  **Sign in** page, in the **Name** box, enter +++Beth@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name.

17. In the  **Password** box, enter Beth's password, and then select  **Sign in**.

18. On the  **Office 365** home page, select **Install Office** icon, and then select **Install software**.

19. On the  **Apps & devices** page, verify that Beth now can install Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise.

20. Switch to  **LON-CL3**. Sign in as **Adatum\Holly**.

21. Right-click  **Start** or access the context menu, and then select **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.

22. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, select **Yes**.

23. In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, enter the following two commands, and then select Enter after each command:

    ```
    Gpupdate /force
    gpresult /r
    ```

24. In the result of the last command, verify that the  **DeployO365** GPO is listed in the filtered-out GPOs , in the **COMPUTER SETTINGS** section, due to a disabled link.

25. Switch to  **LON-DC1** and sign in as +++Adatum\\Administrator+++, by using  +++Pa55w.rd+++ as the password.

26. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, select **Tools**, and then select  **Group Policy Management**.

27. In the  **Group Policy Management** window, expand **Forest: Adatum.com**, expand  **Domains**, expand  **Adatum.com**, and then expand  **Adatum\_Computers**.

28. Verify that the link to the  **DeployO365** GPO is disabled.

29. Right-click the link to the  **DeployO365** GPO or access the context menu, and then select **Link Enabled**.

30. Sign out of  **LON-DC1**.

31. Switch to  **LON-CL3**.

32. In the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```
    Gpupdate /force
    ```

33. In the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```
    gpresult /r
    ```

34. In the result of the command, verify that the  **DeployO365** GPO is now listed in the **Applied GPOs** list.    


## Task 4: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, close all open windows and keep the virtual machines running for the next module.


>  **Result**: After completing this lab, you will be able to resolve Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise issues.



©2020 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
