# Module 5: Administering and troubleshooting Teams

## Lab answer key: Administering Teams

# Exercise 1: Configuring Teams organization settings
**Note**: When asked to sign in during this lab, if you're prompted by the **Help us protect your account** dialog box, select **Skip for now (14 days until this is required)**. 

## Task 1: Install the Teams module for Windows PowerShell

1. On **LON-CL1**, right-click **Start** or access its context menu, and then select **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**. 

2. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, select **Yes**.

3. At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, enter the following command: 

    ```
    Import-Module MicrosoftTeams
    ```

4. When prompted, enter **Y**. 

## Task 2: Connect to Teams by using Windows PowerShell

1. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, enter the following command, and then select enter:

    ```
    $credential = Get-Credential
    ```

2. In the **Windows PowerShell credential request** dialog box, enter the username +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++ where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, enter Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++ , and then select **OK**.

3. Input the following command, and then select enter:

    ```
    Connect-MicrosoftTeams -Credential $credential
    ```

## Task 3: Configure settings for Teams

1. On **LON-CL1**, at the Windows PowerShell command prompt, enter the following command to enable the privacy mode, and then select Enter:

    ```
    Set-CSPrivacyConfiguration -EnablePrivacyMode $true
    ```

Note the warning that you receive about enabling client version checking.

2. To disable push notifications for Apple devices, input the following command, and then select enter:

    ```
    Set-CSPushNotificationConfiguration -EnableApplePushNotification $false
    ```

3. To verify the privacy notification settings, input the following command, and then select enter:

    ```
    Get-CSPrivacyConfiguration
    ```

   You should notice the following output:

    - Identity: **Global**
    - EnablePrivacyMode: **True**
    - AutoInitiateContacts: **True**
    - PublishLocationDataDefault: **True**
    - DisplayPublishedPhotoDefault: **True**

4. To verify the push notification settings, enter the following command, and then select enter:

    ```
    Get-CSPushNotificationConfiguration
    ```

5. To allow users to communicate with public Teams users, enter the following command, and then select enter:

    ```
    Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowPublicUsers $true
    ```

6. To allow users to communicate with federated partners, enter the following command, and then select enter:

    ```
    Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowFederatedUsers $true
    ```

7. To enable communication with all federated partners except for **litware.com**, enter the following three commands, selecting enter after each command:

    ```
    $AllDomains = New-CsEdgeAllowAllKnownDomains
    ```
    ```
    $BlockedDomain = New-CsEdgeDomainPattern -Domain "litware.com"
    ```
    ```
    Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowedDomains $AllDomains -BlockedDomains $BlockedDomain
    ```

8. To verify the external communication changes, enter the following command, and then select enter:

    ```
    Get-CsTenantFederationConfiguration
    ```

9. Open Microsoft Edge, and connect to the +++https://portal.office.com+++.
10. If needed, sign in as +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++ where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, using Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++.
11. On the **Office 365** home page, select the **Admin** tile.
12. In Microsoft 365 admin center, on the navigation pane, navigate to **Admin centers**, and then select **Teams**. 
13. In the navigation pane, select **Org-wide settings**, and then select **External access**.
14. In **External access**, verify that **litware.com** is blocked. 
15. Select **Teams upgrade**. 
16. In the Coexistence mode list, if necessary, select **Islands**, and then select **Save**.
17. Expand **Meetings**, and then select **Meeting policies**. 
18. In the details pane, select **Add**.
19. In the **Title** field, enter +++Adatum Teams meeting policy+++.
20. In the **Audio & video** section, enable **Allow transcription**.
21. In the **Content sharing** section, in the **Screen sharing mode** list, select **Single application**.
22. Enable the option to **Allow an external participant to give or request control**, and then select **Save**.

### Task 4: Configure the meeting invitation settings for Teams

1. On **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Teams admin center, expand **Meetings**, and then select **Meeting settings**.
2. In the **Help URL** text box, enter +++https://helpteams.Adatum.com+++.
3. In the **Footer text** text box, enter +++Sample legal disclaimer for Teams+++, and then select **Preview invite**. 
4. In the **Email invite preview** window, ensure that disclaimer text displays, and that Help link is connected to helpteams.Adatum.com. 
5. Select **Close**, and then select **Save**.

### Task 5: Install Teams and validate the meeting invitation settings for Teams

1. On **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and navigate to +++https://teams.microsoft.com/downloads+++.
2. Select **Download for desktop**. 
3. On the **Download Teams for work on your desktop** page, select **Download Teams**.
4. When the download is complete, select **Open file**.

5. In the **Login to Teams** window, enter the username **Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com**, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, and then select **Sign in**. Enter the password that you set for Holly's account: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++, and then select **Next**.
6. In the **Stay signed in to all your apps** window, clear the **Allow my organization to manage my device** check box, and then select **No, sign in to this app only**. 
7. In the **Bring your team together** window, select **Next** four times, and then select **Let's go**.
8. Close the **Get the Teams mobile app** window, if it displays.
9. In the **Teams** window, select **Teams**, and then select **Join or create a team**.
10. In the **Join or create a team** pane, select **Create team**.
11. In the **Create a team** window, select **From scratch**.

12. In the **What kind of team will this be?** window, select **Org-wide**.
13. In the **Some quick details about your org-wide team** window, enter +++Adatum General+++ for the Team name, and then select **Create**. 

14. In the **Teams** window, select the **HS** icon, and then select **Settings**. 
15. On the **General** tab, verify that the option to **Register Teams as the chat app for Office** is selected. 
16. Close the **Settings** window.
17. Select **Start**, and then select **Outlook**. 
18. Sign out from Windows, and then sign back in as +++Adatum\Holly+++ with the password of +++Pa55w.rd+++.
19. Open **Teams** and **Outlook**. 
20. In Outlook, select the **File** menu, select **Options**, select **Add-Ins**, and then select **Go...**. 
21. In the **COM Add-ins** window, ensure that **Microsoft Teams Meeting Add-in for Microsoft Office** is selected. If it isn't, select it, and then select **OK**.

22. In **Outlook** window, select the **Calendar** icon. Ensure that on the ribbon, the New Teams Meeting icon is present. This confirms that Outlook is now integrated with Teams.
23. On the ribbon, select **New Items**, and then select **Teams Meeting**.
24. Select **To**, select **Ada Russell**, select **Required**, and then select **OK**.
25. Create a meeting request for a time tomorrow using the subject **Test Teams Meeting**.
26. Send the meeting request.
27. In the calendar, double-click or select the meeting that you just created. Verify that the meeting contains a link to **Join Microsoft Teams Meeting**, the custom footer text, and that the help link references +++https://helpteams.Adatum.com+++. 
28. Close the meeting window.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Teams service settings.

# Exercise 2: Configuring Teams user settings 

## Task 1: Modify Teams user settings

1. On **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, navigate to the **Microsoft 365 admin center**.

2. On the navigation menu, expand **Users**, and then select **Active users**. 

3. Select **Ada Russell**, and then select the **Licenses and Apps** tab.

4. Expand the **Apps** node.

5. Scroll down and ensure that **Microsoft Teams** is enabled. 

6. Close the Ada Russell blade.

7. On the navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then select **Teams**.

8. In the Microsoft Teams admin center, on the navigation menu, select **Users**.

9. Verify that **Ada Russell** is listed as a Teams user. 

10. Select **Ada Russell**, and then explore the available settings. 

11. On the **Ada Russell** page, select the **Policies** tab and then select **Edit** next to Assigned policies.

12. In the **Edit user policies** blade, in the **Meeting policy** list, select **Adatum Teams meeting policy**, and then select **Apply**. 

13. Don't close the Microsoft Teams admin center.

## Task 2: Configure settings for a team

1. On **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Edge, switch to the tab where **Microsoft Teams admin center** is open.
2. In the navigation pane, select **Teams**, and then select **Manage teams**. 
3. In the **Manage teams** pane, select **Adatum General**.
4. In the **Adatum General** pane, ensure that users are listed as members.
5. Select **Channels**, and then select **Add**.
6. On the **Add** blade, in the **Name** box, enter **Adatum Project A**, and then select **Apply**.
7. Select **Edit** in the upper right of the display to edit the Team.
8. On the **Edit** blade, expand **Conversations**, disable the option **Team members can delete sent messages**, and then select **Apply**.
9. Switch to Teams app on **LON-CL1**. Ensure that you observe **Adatum Project A** as a new channel, beside **General**.
10. Leave the **Teams** application open.

## Task 3: Verify Teams communications

> **Note:** If you're prompted to reconfigure a firewall rule, do so. Authenticate with the **User Account Control** prompt as +++Adatum\\Administrator+++ and using the password +++Pa55w.rd+++.

1. On **LON-CL2**, ensure that you are signed in as +++Adatum\\Ada+++.

2. Open Microsoft Edge, and navigate to +++https://teams.microsoft.com/downloads+++.

3. Select **Download for desktop**. 

4. On the **Download Teams for work on your desktop** page, select **Download Teams**.

5. When the download completes, select **Open file**.

6. In the **Login to Microsoft Teams** window, enter the username **Ada@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com**, and then select **Sign in**. 

7. Enter the password that you set for Ada's account, and then select **Next**.

8. In the **Stay signed in to all your apps** window, clear the **Allow my organization to manage my device** check box, and then select **No, sign in to this app only**. 

9. When prompted, at the **One more step to set up Teams with Office** dialog box, select **Let's do it**.

10. in the User Account Control dialog box, enter the following and then select **Yes**: 

    - User name : +++adatum\administrator+++
    - Password: +++Pa55w.rd+++ 

11. If prompted, in the **Bring your team together** window, select **Next** four times, and then select **Let's go**.

12. Close the **Get the Teams mobile app** window, if it appears.

13. In the **Teams** window, in the navigation pane, select **Chat**, and then select **New Chat**. 

14. In the **To** text box, enter +++Holly Spencer+++ and select **Holly Spencer**, **HOLLY**. In the **Type a new message** text box, enter +++Hello Holly+++, and then select **Send**. 

15. Switch to **LON-CL1**. 

16. In the **Teams** app, select **Chat**, and ensure that you get message from **Ada**.

17. In the **Chat** window, select the **Screen sharing** icon. Review available options for sharing&mdash;you should observe **Desktop** and **Window** options in addition to an option to share an app if you have any applications open.

18. Switch to **LON-CL2**. Select the same sharing icon in the Teams app. Notice that the only option is **Window**. This is because you applied custom Teams policy to the Ada Russell account.

19. In the Teams app window, in the navigation pane, select **Teams**. In the details pane, select **Adatum Project A**. 

20. In the **Adatum General > Adatum Project A** window, select the plus **+** icon. 

21. In the **Add a tab** window, select **OneNote**. 

22. In the **OneNote** window, select **Adatum General Notebook**, and then select **Save**. Ensure that the OneNote book is added to Adatum Project A channel.

23. Open **Microsoft Edge**, and then connect to the +++https://portal.office.com+++.

24. Sign in as **Ada@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com**, with the password for Ada's account.

25. On the **Office 365** home page, select the **Outlook** tile.

26. If prompted, select the local time zone, and then select **Save**.

27. In the **Outlook** window, select the **Calendar** icon, select the meeting scheduled for tomorrow, select **Yes**, and then select **Send**.

28. In **Calendar**, select the scheduled meeting, and then select **Join**.

29. In the **This site is trying to open Microsoft Teams** dialog box, select **Open**. 

30. On the **Choose your audio and video settings for** page, select **Join now**.

31. In the **Windows Security Alert** dialog box, select **Allow access**. 

32. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, enter the username +++Adatum\Administrator+++ and the password +++Pa55w.rd+++, and then select **Yes**.

33. If the **No Microphone** and **No Speakers** prompts displays, close them.

34. On **LON-CL1**, in Teams, select **Calendar**.

35. Locate and select the scheduled meeting, and then select **Join**.

36. On the **Test Teams Meeting** page, select **Join now**.

37. In the **Windows Security Alert** dialog box, select **Allow access**. 

38. If prompted, in the **User Account Control** dialog box, enter the username +++Adatum\Administrator+++ and the password +++Pa55w.rd+++, and then select **Yes**.

39. If the **No Microphone** and **No Speakers** prompts displays, close them.

40. Verify that Ada is connected to the meeting.

41. In the meeting window, select the **Share content** icon, and then select **Desktop**.

42. Switch between VMs for the next four steps:

43. On **LON-CL2**, verify that Holly's desktop displays in the meeting window.

44. On **LON-CL1**, in the meeting window, select **Stop sharing** on the toolbar.

45. On **LON-CL2**, close Microsoft Edge, and sign out of Windows.

46. On **LON-CL1**, disconnect from the meeting, and sign out of Windows.   

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Teams user settings and validated Teams functionality.

# Exercise 3: Creating and managing teams 

## Task 1: Create a new team

1. On **LON-CL1**, sign in as +++Adatum\Holly+++ with the password of +++Pa55w.rd+++.
2. Right-click **Start** or access its context menu, and then select **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**. 
3. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, select **Yes**.
4. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```
    $credential = Get-Credential
    ```

4. In the **Windows PowerShell credential request** dialog box, enter the username +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number. Enter Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++, and then select **OK**.

5. Enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```
    Connect-MicrosoftTeams -Credential $credential
    ```

7. Enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```
    New-Team -DisplayName "Adatum Reads" -Description "Team to post technical articles and blogs" -Visibility Public
    ```
    
8. Make a note of the **GroupId** value, and substitute it in the following commands in place of the *GroupID* placeholder. 

9. Enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```
    New-TeamChannel -GroupId GroupId -DisplayName "Articles"
    ```

10. Enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```
    New-TeamChannel -GroupId GroupId -DisplayName "Blogs"
    ```
    
11. If necessary, open Teams and, if necessary, sign in as +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number. Enter Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++, and then select **OK**.

12. In Teams, select **Teams**, and then select **Adatum Reads**. 

13. Verify the presence of the **General**, **Articles**, and **Blogs** channels, and that the team's channels' visibility is **Org**.
    

## Task 2: Configure the team

1. Switch to Windows PowerShell.
2. Using the **GroupId** value from earlier, substitute it in place of the *GroupID* placeholder in the following commands. To change visibility and description, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```
    Set-Team -GroupId GroupId -DisplayName "Private Adatum Reads" -Visibility Private
    ```

3. To add a member, enter the following command, replacing your custom domain name details, and then select Enter:

    ```
    Add-TeamUser -GroupId GroupId -User Ada@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com
    ```



## Task 3: Verify the team's settings

1. In Teams, select **Teams**, select **Private Adatum Reads**, and verify that the team's visibility is Team.
2. Select the **More options** ellipsis for **Private Adatum Reads**, and then select **Manage team**.
3. Expand **Members and guests** and notice that **Ada Russell** is listed.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created and configured teams using Windows PowerShell.

# Exercise 4: Troubleshooting Teams client issues

## Task 1: Review available logs

1. On **LON-CL1**, in Teams, select the following keys in combination: **CTRL** + **ALT** + **SHIFT** + **1**.
2. Select **Open Downloads Folder**, and in the **Downloads** folder, delete all existing files.
3. In Teams, select the following keys in combination: **CTRL + ALT + SHIFT + 1**. 
4. When the message **1 file was downloaded** displays, select the link. 
5. When the **Downloads** folder opens, review a few of the available files. 
6. To review Desktop logs, in the system tray on the taskbar, right-click the **Teams** icon or access its context menu, and then select **Get logs**.
7. Scroll to the end of the file, where the most recent logging information is located. Review the information, and then close the file.
8. To enable Media logging, in the system tray on the taskbar, right-click the **Teams** icon or access its context menu, and then select **Settings**.
9. In **Settings**, on the **General** tab, select the **Enable logging for meeting diagnostics (requires restarting Teams)** check box.
10. Close **Settings**. 
11. In the system tray on the taskbar, right-click the **Teams** icon or access its context menu, and then select **Quit**.
12. Reopen Teams.
13. In Teams, select **Calendar**. 
14. Select **Meet now**, and then select **Join now**. 
15. In the **Participants** list, enter and select **Ada Russell**. 
16. Switch to **LON-CL2**, and sign in as +++Adatum\Ada+++. 
17. In Teams, select **Accept**.
18. Select **Join now**. 
19. After a moment, select **Leave**. 
20. Switch to **LON-CL1**, and then select **Leave**. 
21. Open **File Explorer**, and then navigate to **%appdata%\Microsoft\Teams\media-stack**. 
22. Review the log files, and notice the most recent one, which relates to the recent meeting. 
23. Close File Explorer.

## Task 2: Verify call quality

1. On **LON-CL1**, switch to Microsoft Edge, and select the **Microsoft Teams admin center** tab. 

2. In Microsoft Teams admin center, select **Users**, and then select **Ada Russell**.

3. Review the **7-DAY QUALITY** indicator. 

4. On the **Call history** tab, select the listed call. 

5. Review the **Audio quality** column. 

6. Select the Session start time adjacent to **Ada Russell**. 

7. In the call details pane, select the **Advanced** tab, and review the available information. 

8. Select the **Debug** tab, and then review the available information. 

9. Select **Export report**, and notice that a spreadsheet is created and downloaded. You can select **Open file** to review the spreadsheet in Microsoft Excel if you want.

10. Close all open windows, and then sign out from both **LON-CL1** and **LON-CL2**.

## Task 3: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, keep the VMs running for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully reviewed the available logs and verified call quality.
>
> 

©2020 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. A few examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
