# Module 4: Administering and troubleshooting Exchange Online
## Lab Answer key: Administering and troubleshooting Exchange Online


# Exercise 1: Configuring and administering Microsoft Exchange Online Recipients

## Task 1: Manage a user mailbox

1. On **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge.

2. In the address bar, enter +++https://portal.office.com+++, and then select Enter.

3. Sign in as +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, with Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++

4. On the **Office 365 home** page, select **Admin**.

5. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, select **Show all** to expand the **Admin centers** menu, and then select **Exchange**.

6. In the Exchange admin center, select **recipients**.

7. Double-click **Amy Santiago** or select it and then select Enter.

8. Select the **email address** tab. Verify the email addresses assigned to the user. The email address should be on your custom domain name.

9. Select **mailbox features**. Scroll down to  **IMAP: Enabled**, and then select **Disable**.

10. In the **Warning** window, select **Yes**.

11. Scroll down to **Archiving: Disabled** and select **Enable**. Select **View details**.

12. In the **archive mailbox** window, in the **Name** text box, enter +++AmyArchive+++. Select **OK**, and then select  **Save**. Select **OK**.


## Task 2: Create groups and assign mailboxes

1. In the **Exchange admin center**, select  **recipients**, and then on the toolbar, select **groups**.

2. Select the arrow icon located beside the **+New Microsoft 365 group** icon, and then select **Distribution list**.

3. In the **new distribution list** window, in the **Display name** text box, enter +++DLGroup1+++. Enter the same value in the **Alias** text box.

4. In the **Email address** text box, if needed, enter +++dlgroup1+++.

5. Scroll down and select **Closed: Members can be added only by the group owners. All requests to join will be rejected automatically.** and select **Open: Anyone can leave this group without being approved by the group owners.**

6. Select **Save**.

7. In the **Exchange admin center** window, double-click +++DLGroup1+++ or select it and then select Enter.

8. In the **DLGroup1** window, select **membership**.

9. Select the **+** icon.

10. Add users **Adam Hobbs**, **Ada Russell**, and **Amy Santiago**, and then select **OK**.

11. Select the **group delegation** tab.

12. In the **Send on Behalf** window, select the **+** icon.

13. Select the **Amy Santiago** user, select **add**, and then select  **OK**.

14. In the **DLGroup1** window, select **Save**.

15. Leave the **Microsoft Edge** browser window open.


## Task 3: Create a shared mailbox

1. Ensure that the **Exchange admin center** is open.

2. If necessary, select **recipients**, and then select **shared**.

3. Select **New**.

4. In the **new shared mailbox** window, in the **Display name** text box, enter +++Projects+++.

5. In the **Email address** text box, enter **projects**.

6. In the **Users** section, select the **+** icon.

7. From the **users** list, select **Ada Russell** and **Abbi Skinner**, select **add**, and then select **OK**.

8. Select **Save**.

9. In Microsoft Edge, open a new **InPrivate** window, and then browse to +++https://portal.office.com+++.

10. Sign in as +++Ada@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where **@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com** is your unique domain name, by using the password assigned to Ada's account.

11. On the **Office 365 home** page, select **Outlook**. On the **Language and Time zone** page, select **(UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US&amp;Canada)**, and then select  **Save**.

12. In the **Outlook** window, in the right-upper corner, select **Ada@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com**, where **@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com** is your unique domain name, and then select **Open another mailbox**.

13. In the **Open another mailbox** window, enter **Projects**, and then select **Open**.

14. Verify that you can open the **Projects** shared mailbox.

15. Close the **InPrivate** window in Microsoft Edge.



## Task 4: Connect to Exchange Online with Windows PowerShell

1. On the desktop of **LON-CL1**, right-click **Windows PowerShell** or access the context menu, and then select **Run as administrator**.

2. At the **User Account Control** prompt, select **Yes**.

3. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    $credential = Get-Credential
    ```

4. In the **Enter Credentials** dialog box, in the **username** box, enter +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

5. In the **Password** box, enter Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++, and then select **OK**.

6. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    Connect-MsolService -Credential $credential
    ```

7. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    $exchangeSession = New-PSSession -ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri "https://outlook.office365.com/powershell-liveid/" -Credential $credential -Authentication "Basic" -AllowRedirection
    ```

8. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    Import-PSSession $exchangeSession -DisableNameChecking
    ```

9. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    Get-Mailbox
    ```

    > [!Note]This command returns the list of mailboxes and verifies that you can connect to your Office 365 subscription.


10. Leave the **Windows PowerShell** window open.



## Task 5: Create resource mailboxes

1. In the **Microsoft Edge** window, where you are signed in as Holly, in the Exchange Admin center, in **recipients**, select **resources**.

2. On **LON-CL1**, in the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    New-Mailbox -Name "Conference Room" -Room
    ```

    > [!Note]If you get a warning about replication failure for new mailbox, wait 4-5 minutes before proceeding to the next step.


3. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    Set-CalendarProcessing "Conference Room" -AutomateProcessing AutoAccept
    ```

4. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    New-Mailbox -Name "Demonstration Laptop" -Equipment
    ```

    > [!Note]If you get a warning about replication failure for new mailbox, wait 4-5 minutes before proceeding to the next step.


5. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    Set-CalendarProcessing "Demonstration Laptop" -AutomateProcessing AutoAccept
    ```

    > [!Note]If you receive an error when running the **Set-CalendarProcessing** cmdlet for either of these objects, wait a few moments and repeat.


6. Switch to Microsoft Edge, and then in the Exchange Admin center, select  **Refresh**. You should be able to find both resources.

7. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    Set-Mailbox "Conference Room" -ResourceCapacity "25"
    ```

8. Switch to Microsoft Edge, and then in the Exchange Admin center, select  **Conference Room**. You should be able to find the **Capacity** you configured on the **details** pane on the right side of the screen. If not, select **Refresh**.
9. Leave the **Windows PowerShell** window and the **Microsoft Edge** window open.



## Task 6: Explore the new Exchange Online admin center
1. In the **Microsoft Edge** window, in **Exchange admin center**, select **New Exchange admin center** link on the **navigation** pane.
2. If needed, sign in with **Global administrator** account (**Holly**).
3. In the new Exchange admin center, expand the **Recipients** menu and then select **Resources**.
4. Verify that you find the **Conference Room** resource that you created. Select it, and on the **details** pane, explore available options. Don't make any changes.
5. On the **navigation** pane, expand the **Reports** menu, and then select **Mail flow**.
6. On the **Mail flow** page, select **Inbound message report**. Review the report. **Note**: If no email traffic was generated before, you might not be able to see content of this report.
7. Select **Mail flow** on the **navigation** pane and then select **Outbound message report**. Review the report. **Note**: If no email traffic was generated before, you might not be able to see content of this report.
8. On the **navigation** pane, select **More features**. On the **More features** pane, review additional options available. You can open available links to review additional options.
9. On the **navigation** pane of the new Exchange admin center, select **Classic Exchange admin center**.
10. Leave the **Microsoft Edge** browser window open.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you'll have created and configured Microsoft Exchange Online recipients.


# Exercise 2: Configuring delegated administration

## Task 1: Assign users to built-in role groups

1. In the **Exchange admin center**, select **permissions**.

2. On the **admin roles** tab, select **Organization Management**, and then select **Edit**.

3. In the **Role Group** window, under **Members**, select the **+** icon.

4. In the **Select Members** window, select **Ada Russell**, select  **add**, and then select  **OK**.

5. In the **Role Group** window, select **Save**.


## Task 2: Create a new admin role and assign a user to it

1. Switch to **Windows PowerShell**.

2. On **LON-CL1**, in the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    Enable-OrganizationCustomization
    ```

3. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    New-RoleGroup -Name BranchOfficeAdmins -roles "Mail Recipients", "Distribution Groups", "Move Mailboxes", "Mail Recipient Creation"
    ```

4. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    Add-RoleGroupMember "BranchOfficeAdmins" -Member Amy
    ```

5. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    Get-RoleGroupMember "BranchOfficeAdmins"
    ```

6. Switch to Microsoft Edge, and then in the Exchange admin center, on **admin roles** tab, select  **Refresh**. Ensure that you can find the new  **BranchOffice Admins** role group.

7. Double-click the **BranchOffice Admins** role or select it and then select Enter.

8. In the **BranchOffice Admins** window, review the **Roles** section.

9. Review the **Members** section and ensure that **Amy** is added as a member.

10. Select **Cancel**.


## Task 3: Create a new role assignment policy

1. In **Microsoft Edge**, in the **Exchange Admin center**, select **user roles**.

2. Switch to the **Windows PowerShell** window on **LON-CL1**.

3. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    New-RoleAssignmentPolicy "Limited Mailbox Configuration" -Roles MyBaseOptions,MyAddressInformation,MyDisplayName
    ```

4. To change the default role assignment policy for new mailboxes, in the  **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    Set-RoleAssignmentPolicy "Limited Mailbox Configuration" -IsDefault
    ```

5. When prompted, enter **Y**, and then select Enter.

6. In the Exchange admin center, select  **Refresh**. You can find the new role assignment policy.

7. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```powershell
    Remove-PSSession $exchangeSession
    ```

8. Close the **Windows PowerShell** window on **LON-CL1**.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you'll have configured delegated administration of your Exchange Online organization.


# Exercise 3: Configuring client access policies

## Task 1: Configure Outlook Web App policies

1. On **LON-CL1**, in the Exchange admin center, select **permissions**, and then select  **Outlook Web App policies**.

2. Select **New**.

3. In the new **Outlook Web App mailbox policy** window, in the **Policy name** box, enter +++Limited features+++.

4. Clear the following check boxes:

      -  **Instant messaging**
    
      -  **Text messaging**
    
      -  **Unified messaging**
    
      -  **LinkedIn contact sync**
    
      -  **Journaling**
    
5. Under  **Private computer or OWA for devices**, clear the  **Direct file access** check box, and then select **Save**.
6. Select  **recipients**, select  **mailboxes,** select **Abbi Skinner**, and then select  **Edit**.
7. In the  **Abbi Skinner** window, select **mailbox features**.
8. Under  **Email Connectivity**, select  **View details**.
9. In the  **Outlook Web App mailbox policy** window, select **Browse**, select  **Limited features**, select  **OK**, and then select  **Save**.
10. In the  **Abbi Skinner** window, select **Save**.
11. Sign out from  **LON-CL1** and sign in as **Adatum\\Holly**. On  **LON-CL1**, select  **Start**, enter  **Outlook**, and then select  **Outlook**. On **The fine print** page, if it displays, select **Accept and start Outlook**.
12. On the  **Welcome to Outlook** page, enter +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, and select **Connect**.
If prompted, in the  **Windows Security** dialog box, enter +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, and Holly's Office 365 password. Select  **Yes** and then select  **Done**.
13. If Stay signed in to all your apps window appears, select **No, sign in to this app only**.
14. On the **Account setup is complete** page, clear the option to set up Outlook on your phone, and then select **OK**.
15. Select **New Email**.
16. In the **new email** window, in the **To** box, enter +++Abbi@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where **@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com** is your unique domain name, and then select **Check Names**.
17. In the **Subject** box, enter +++Attachment Test+++.
18. On the ribbon, select **Attach File**, and then select **Browse This PC**.
19. In the **Insert File** window, browse to **C:\\Windows\\Logs\\DISM**, select **dism**, and then select **Insert**.
20. Select **Send**.
21. Open a new **InPrivate** window in Microsoft Edge, navigate to +++https://portal.office.com+++ and sign in as +++Abbi@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where **@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com** is your unique domain name, with Abbi's password. Select **Outlook**.
22. On the **Outlook** page, select your time zone, and then select **Save**.
23. Study the new **Attachment Test** message.
24. Select the message attachment.
25. Select **OK** to close the message, indicating that you don't have permission to download files.

    > [!Note]In a few cases, it might take a few minutes for the new Outlook Web App mailbox policy to take effect.


25. Close the **InPrivate** window.


## Task 2: Configure mobile device access

1. On **LON-CL1**, if needed, open a regular **Microsoft Edge** window.

2. In the address bar, enter +++https://portal.office.com+++, and then select Enter.

3. Sign in as +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, with Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++.

4. On the **Office 365 home** page, select **Admin**.

5. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, expand the **Admin centers** menu, and then select **Exchange**.

6. In the Exchange admin center, select **mobile**, and then select **mobile device access**.

7. Select **edit**.

8. In the **Exchange ActiveSync access settings** window, select **Quarantine - Let me decide to block or allow later**.

9. Under **Quarantine Notification Email Messages**, select **Add**, select **Holly Spencer**, select **add**, and then select **OK**.

10. In the **Exchange ActiveSync access settings** window, select **Save**.


## Task 3: Configure a mailbox policy for mobile devices

1. On **LON-CL1**, in the **Exchange admin center**, on the **mobile** menu, select **mobile device mailbox policies**.

2. Select **Default (default)**, and then select **Edit**.

3. In the **Default** window, select **security**, and then select the **Require a password** check box.

4. Select the **Allow simple passwords** check box.

5. Select the **Minimum password length** check box, enter a value of **4**, and then select **Save**.

6. Leave the **Microsoft Edge** window with Exchange admin center open.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you'll have configured client access policies.


# Exercise 4: Troubleshooting Exchange Online

## Task 1: Generate a problem

1. On the **LON-CL1** desktop, right-click **Windows PowerShell** or access the context menu, and then select **Run as administrator**.

2. At the **User Account Control** prompt, select **Yes**.

3. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command, and then select Enter.

    ```powershell
    cd C:\Labfiles\Mod04
    ```

4. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, enter the following command and then select Enter.

    ```powershell
    .\Mod4_CreateProblem.ps1
    ```

5. In the **Enter Credentials** dialog box, in the **username** box, enter +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

6. In the **Password** box, enter Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++, and then select **OK**.

7. Wait until you get command prompt back and then close the **Windows PowerShell** window.


## Task 2: Identify and resolve issues

1. Open a new **InPrivate** window in Microsoft Edge and navigate to +++https://portal.office.com+++.

2. Sign in to Office 365 as +++Ada@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com+++, where **@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com** is your unique domain name, with Ada's password.

3. On the **Office 365 home** page, select **Outlook**. Set your time zone and select **Save**. 
You shouldn't be able to access your mailbox by using Outlook on the web. Leave that window open. Note the error message and then close the tab.

4. Switch to the **Microsoft Edge** window where you are signed in as +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, and where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

5. In the **Exchange admin center**, select **recipients**, and then in the **mailboxes** list, double-click **Ada Russell** or select it and then select Enter.

6. In the **Ada Russell** window, select **mailbox features**.

7. In the **Email Connectivity** section, verify the value for Outlook on the web. It should be set to **Disabled**.

8. Select **Enable**, and then select **Save**.

9. Switch back to the Microsoft Edge **InPrivate** window where you are signed in as **Ada**. Select the **Outlook** icon. You should be able to open Outlook on the web.

    > [!Note]You might need to wait for a few minutes.


10. In the **Outlook** window, select **Ada Russell**, and then select **Open another mailbox**.

11. In the **Open another mailbox** window, enter **Projects**, and then select **Open**. Projects mailbox will open. Try to send an email from Projects mailbox. Note the error message and then close the tab.

12. Switch to the **Microsoft Edge** window where you are signed in as +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number.

13. In the **Exchange admin center**, select **recipients**, select **shared**, and then double-click **Projects** or select it and then select Enter.

14. In the **Projects** window, select **mailbox delegation**, and then in the **Send As** section, verify that **Ada Russell** is not listed.

15. Select the **+** icon.

16. In the list of users, select **Ada Russell**, select **add**, and then select **OK**. Select **Save**.

17. Switch back to the Microsoft Edge **InPrivate** window where you are signed in as **Ada**, in Projects mailbox.

18. Try to send an email from **Projects mailbox**.

20. You should be able to do it, as you assigned **Ada** with **Send As** permission.

    > [!Note]You might need to wait for a few minutes.



## Task 3: Prepare for the next module

- Keep the virtual machines running for the lab in the next module. Close all open windows on **LON-CL1**.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you'll have had experience troubleshooting Exchange Online.



©2020 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
