# Module 2: Office 365 administration, tools, and techniques
## Lab answer key: Administering Office 365 


# Exercise 1: Using the Microsoft 365 Admin center

## Task 1: Create user accounts

1. Switch to **LON-CL1**.

2. Open Microsoft Edge browser, and then browse to  +++https://portal.office.com+++.

3. Sign in as  +++Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com+++, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++ 

    >[!Note] We are using Adatum@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com as a default domain for Holly's account because this account is the first global admin account created. For all other accounts, we will use @lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com as a sign in domain, as this is default domain for your Office 365 tenant.*

4. On the Microsoft Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

5. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the navigation pane, expand  **Users**, and then select  **Active Users**.

6. Select  **Add a user**.

7. On the  **Set up the basics** page, in the **First name** text box, enter +++Lindsey+++.

8. In the  **Last name** text box, enter +++Gates+++.

9. Notice that the  **Display name** text box is automatically filled in as **Lindsey Gates**.

10. In the  **User name** text box, enter +++Lindsey+++.

11. Verify that  ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is listed in the text box. Ensure that **Auto-generate password** is selected as well as an option to require the user to change their password when they first sign in.

12. Select **Next**.

13. On the **Assign product licenses page**, in the **Select location** drop-down list, select your country/region. If your country/region is not listed, select **United States**.  In the **Licenses** section, ensure that **Office 365 E5** is selected and select **Next**.

14. On the **Optional settings** page, review available options, but don't make any changes. Select **Next**.

15. On the  **Review and finish** page, review configured settings and select **Finish adding**. 

16. On the **Lindsey Gates has been added** page, note the temporary password here: @lab.TextBox(Lindseypassword) and select **Close**.

17. Repeat steps 6 through 16 to create the following users (for the  **User name**, use the  **First name**):

  - Christie Thomas

  - Amy Santiago

  - Sallie McIntosh

  - Francisco Chaves


18. Note their temporary passwords here:

  - Christie Thomas: @lab.TextBox(Christiepassword)

  - Amy Santiago: @lab.TextBox(Amypassword)

  - Sallie McIntosh: @lab.TextBox(Salliepassword)

  - Francisco Chaves: @lab.TextBox(Fransiscopassword)



## Task 2: Review the available Admin centers

1. In Microsoft Edge, in the **Microsoft 365 Admin center**, in the navigation pane, scroll to  **Admin centers**. If needed, select **Show all** in the Admin centers section.

2. In the list of admin centers, select  **Exchange**. A new tab opens in Microsoft Edge.

3. In the **Exchange admin center**, in the navigation pane, select  **recipients**. Your users are listed.

4. In the navigation pane, select  **organization**. Review the settings.

5. In the navigation pane, select  **permissions**.

6. Review the available admin roles.

7. In the navigation pane, select  **mail flow**, and then select the  **accepted domains** link.

8. Review the accepted domains.

9. Switch back to the **Microsoft 365 Admin center** and then, in the navigation pane, select  **Teams**. A new tab opens in Microsoft Edge.

10. In the navigation pane, select  **Users**. Your users are listed.

11. In the navigation pane, expand  **Org-wide settings**.

12. Review the available settings.

13. Switch back to the Microsoft 365 admin center and then, in the navigation pane, select  **SharePoint**. A new tab opens in Microsoft Edge.

14. In the navigation pane, select to expand  **Sites**, and then select  **Active sites**. Review the available site collections.

15. Close Microsoft Edge.


  >  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have used the administrative portal and explored the user interface.



# Exercise 2: Administering Office 365 with Windows PowerShell

## Task 1: Create user accounts

1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the search box enter **powershell**. In the Best match list, right-click **Windows PowerShell** or access the context menu and then select **Run as administrator**.

2. If a  **User Account Control** dialog box appears, select **Yes**.

3. In the Administrator: Windows PowerShell window, input +++Install-Module MSOnline+++ and then Enter. When prompted for NuGet provider, enter +++Y+++ and Enter. If prompted to Untrusted repository, enter +++Y+++ and Enter. Wait until MSOnline package is installed and you get command prompt back.

4. At the command prompt, enter the following command, and Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Connect-MsolService
    ```

5. In the  **Sign in** dialog box, sign in as **Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com**, where  ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, select **Next** and then enter Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++ 

6. At the command prompt, enter the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name; and select Enter. Provide a password that meets the complexity requirements.
   
    ```powershell
    New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com -DisplayName "Catherine Richard" -FirstName "Catherine"  -LastName "Richard" -Password 'Provide a password' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "CH"
    ```

7. At the command prompt, enter the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name; and select Enter. Provide a password that meets the complexity requirements.

    ```powershell
    New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName tameka@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com -DisplayName "Tameka Reed" -FirstName "Tameka" -LastName "Reed"  -Password 'Provide a password' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "CH"
    ```

8. To determine which users are unlicensed, at the command prompt, enter the following command, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Get-MsolUser -UnlicensedUsersOnly
    ```

9. To review the available licenses, at the command prompt, enter the following command, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Get-MsolAccountSku
    ```

10. To license Catherine Richard, at the command prompt, enter the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain; and select Enter. Replace ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** in the **-AddLicenses** attribute with your unique domain name prefix that you can observe in result of previous command:

    ```powershell
    Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Catherine@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com -AddLicenses "@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
    ```

11. To license Tameka Reed, at the command prompt, enter the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain; and select Enter. Replace ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** in the **-AddLicenses** attribute with your unique domain name prefix:
   
    ```powershell
    Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Tameka@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com -AddLicenses "@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
    ```

12. To prevent a user from signing in, at the command prompt, enter the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com -BlockCredential $true
    ```

13. To delete a user, at the command prompt, enter the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Remove-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com -Force
    ```
   
14. To review the  **Deleted Users** list, at the command prompt, enter the following command, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
    ```

15. Verify that Catherine Richard is in the list of deleted users. Note that it specifies that she is still licensed.

16. To restore a deleted user, at the command prompt, enter the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Restore-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com
    ```

17. To review the deleted users list, at the command prompt, enter the following command, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
    ```

18. Verify that Catherine Richard is no longer in the list of deleted users.

19. To review the active users list, at the command prompt, enter the following command, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Get-MsolUser
    ```

20. Verify that Catherine Richard is in the active users list.

21. To allow a user to sign in, at the command prompt, enter the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com -BlockCredential $false
    ```



## Task 2: Using Windows PowerShell to change user settings

1. At the Windows PowerShell prompt on  **LON-CL1**, input the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, and then Enter. Provide a password that meets the complexity requirements.
   
    ```powershell
    Set-MsolUserPassword -UserPrincipalName "Tameka@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com" -NewPassword 'Provide a password'
    ```

2. Use the following command to set user passwords to expire. At the command prompt, input the following command, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Get-MsolUser | Set-MsolUser -PasswordNeverExpires $false
    ```
   
   
   
   >  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully administered Office 365 by using Windows PowerShell.
   


# Exercise 3: Configuring role-based administration

## Task 1: Assign service administrators in the Office 365 admin center

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  +++https://portal.office.com+++.

2. Sign in as  **Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com**;  where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password: +++@lab.Variable(hollypassword)+++

3. In the Office 365 admin center, select  **Admin**.

4. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the navigation pane, expand  **Users**, select  **Active users**, and then select  **Francisco Chaves**.

5. On the  **Francisco Chaves** page, in the Roles section, select **Manage roles**.

6. In the **Manage roles** window, select **Admin center access** and then expand **Show all by category** and select  **Billing admin** from the **Other** section, and select  **Save changes**, and then close the window.

7. In the list review, select  **Tameka Reed**.

8. On the  **Tameka Reed** page, in the Roles section, select **Manage roles**.

9. In the **Manage admin roles** window, select **Admin center access** and then select **Helpdesk admin** from the list, and select  **Save changes**, and then close the window.

10. In the list review, select  **Christie Thomas**.

11. On the  **Christie Thomas** page, in the Roles section, select **Manage roles**.

12. In the **Manage roles** window, select **Admin center access** and then select  **User admin**, and then close the window. Select  **Save changes**, and then close the window.

13. Close Microsoft Edge.




## Task 2: Manage service administration with Windows PowerShell

1. In the Windows PowerShell window on  **LON-CL1**, at the command prompt, enter the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Add-MsolRoleMember -RoleName "Service Support Administrator" -RoleMemberEmailAddress "Sallie@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com"
    ```

2. At the command prompt, enter the following command, where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Add-MsolRoleMember -RoleName "Company Administrator" -RoleMemberEmailAddress "Amy@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com"
    ```

3. At the command prompt, enter the following command, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    $role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Service Support Administrator"
    ```

4. At the command prompt, enter the following command, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
    ```

5. Verify that **Sallie McIntosh** is in the list of users who have the Service Support Administrator role.

6. At the command prompt, enter the following command, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    $role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Billing Administrator"
    ```

7. At the command prompt, enter the following command, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
    ```

8. Verify that **Francisco Chaves** is in the list of users who have the billing administrator role.

9. At the command prompt, enter the following command, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    $role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Company Administrator"
    ```

10. At the command prompt, enter the following command, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
    ```

11. Verify that **Amy Santiago** is in the list of users who have the Company Administrator role. You should also observe Holly Spencer on the list.

12. Close the Windows PowerShell window.



## Task 3: Verify service administration

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  +++https://portal.office.com+++.

2. Sign in as  **Tameka\@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com**;  where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain name, by using the password assigned to Tameka's account. If prompted to stay signed in, select **No**.

3. On the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

4. If prompted, sign in again as  **Tameka@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com**;  where ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com*** is your unique domain, by using the password assigned to Tameka's account.

5. On the Microsoft 365 admin center, expand  **Users**, and then select  **Active users**.

6. select  **Lindsey Gates**. Note that you cannot perform any administrative tasks.

7. select  **Reset password** on the toolbar (it is the icon with a key).

8. On the  **Reset password** page, select **Reset**.

9. Write down the temporary password here for future reference, and then select  **Send email and close**:@lab.TextBox(TamekaNewpassword).

10. Close and reopen Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  +++https://portal.office.com+++.

11. Sign in as  **Christie@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com**;  where **@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com** is your unique domain name, by using the temporary password that you recorded earlier.

12. Change Christie's password to a new password that meets the complexity requirements. If prompted to stay signed in, select **No**.

13. In the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

14. If prompted, sign in again as  **Christie@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com**;  where **@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com** is your unique domain name, by using the password you assigned to Christie's account.

15. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the Home page, expand **Users**, select  **Active users**, and then select  **Lindsey Gates**.

16. On the  **Lindsey Gates** page, in the **Contact information** section, select **Manage contact information**.

17. On the  **Edit contact information** page, expand **Contact information**.

18. In the  **Office Phone** text box, enter +++555-1234+++, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close**.

19. On the **Lindsey Gates** page, select the  **Block sign-in** icon, then select **Block this user from signing in** and select **Save changes**. Close the **Block this user?** pane.

20. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select  **Add a user**.

21. In the  **First name** text box, enter +++Chris+++.

22. In the  **Last name** text box, enter +++Breland+++.

23. In the  **User name** text box, enter +++Chris+++, and then select  **Next**.

24. On the **Assign product licenses** page, ensure that **Office 365 E5** is selected and select **Next**.

25. On the **Optional settings** page select **Next** and then select **Finish adding** and **Close**. 

26. In the  **Active users** list, select **Chris Breland**.

27. On  **Chris Breland** page, select the **Delete user** icon.

28. On the  **Delete Chris Breland** page, select **Delete user**, and then select  **Close**.

29. Close Microsoft Edge.

   
   >  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have assigned Office 365 administrator roles.
   
   

# Exercise 4: Troubleshooting administrative issues in Office 365 

## Task 1: Attempt to unblock a user

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  +++https://portal.office.com+++.

2. Sign in as  **Sallie@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com**, where **@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com** is your unique domain name, by using the password that you recorded earlier in the lab when you created Sallie's account.

3. On the  **Update your password** page, in the **Current password** text box, enter the password that you recorded earlier.

4. In the  **New password** and **Confirm password** text boxes, enter a new password, and then select  **Update password and sign in**.

5. On the Microsoft Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

6. On the menu on the left side, select  **Users**, and then select  **Active Users**.

7. In the details pane, select  **Lindsey Gates**.

8. Notice that you are unable to unblock the account. Why?

9. select  **Close**.

10. Close Microsoft Edge.



## Task 2: Attempt a resolution

1. On  **LON-CL1**, on the desktop, right-click the  **Windows PowerShell** shortcut or access the context menu and then select **Run as administrator**.

2. If a  **User Account Control** select **Yes**.

3. At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Connect-MsolService
    ```

4. In the  **Sign in to your account** dialog box, sign in as **Holly@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantName.onmicrosoft.com**, where  ***@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix*** is your unique Adatum number, by using Holly's password.

5. In the Windows PowerShell window, at the command prompt, enter the following command, where **@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com** is your unique domain name, and select Enter:
   
    ```powershell
    Add-MsolRoleMember -RoleName "User Administrator" -RoleMemberEmailAddress "Sallie@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com"
    ```



## Task 3: Test your resolution

1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  +++https://portal.office.com+++.

2. Sign in as **Sallie@@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com**, where **@lab.CloudCredential(M365EnterpriseBlankAdminOnly15S3SharpStakeholderJi).TenantPrefix.onelearndns.com** is your unique domain name, by using the password you assigned to Sallie's account.

3. On the Microsoft Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

4. On the navigation pane, select  **Users**, and then select  **Active Users**.

5. In the details pane, select  **Lindsey Gates**.

6. On the  **Lindsey Gates** page, select the icon to unblock the user.

7. On the **Unblock this user?** pane remove the check mark from **Block this user from signing in** option, and then select  **Save changes**.

8. Close the window.

9. Close Microsoft Edge.

10. Close Windows PowerShell.



## Task 4: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running for the next module.


    >  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have resolved issues with Office 365 administration.



©2020 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. A few examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
